Hi?	How are you?	Please, just for once!	Please...	See you!	What's your name?	Answer now!	Boss told you!	Gyeon-woo, I'm Gyeon-woo.	What brought you here?	I'm innocent.	I'm telling the truth, sir!	So you're an innocent and we're fucking guilty, huh?	No, I don't mean that!	That's exactly what you said, motherfucker!	I'm gonna put it right.	I'm sorry.	You raped a girl, huh?	Nope!	No!	Come on!	Shoot now, you little creep!	You wanna cut your finger or talk now?	Huh?	Be quick, he told you... you little bastard!	You turn against him, or what?	All of you.	Eat one a piece, okay?	Yes, boss.	What are you looking at?	Look away.	Gyeon-woo!	You're out!	Take care you guys!	Bye!	And remember to keep in touch!	Uh...	Oh, yeah.	Don't just pass by us next time, all right?	Of course.	See you.	Hey!	You come over here.	Didn't I say eat one a piece!	I'm home.	Did you go to Bupyung?	Yes, I did.	Come here!	Where did you sleep?	Your aunt said you didn't come!	And you're telling me a lie!	What happened to your sweater?	I'm such a poor guy.	All this because of a drunk girl.	I wanna die.	You asked if I went to Bupyung!	I did, but not to see auntie!	What?	Bastard!	Wait till he comes back.	Know me now, right?	I'm a typical student.	An engineering major.	Study?	I'm smart, but I never study.	My parents can prove that.	You're smart like me, but studying is your problem.	Since you inherited your brain from me, you'll get good grades if you study harder, idiot.	Up four points in three years.	Call this a report card?	Since you inherited your brain from your mom, you'll get good grades if you study harder.	If you raise kids, never tell them they're smart.	They'll never study.	My goals?	Haven't thought about it yet.	You know now?	You got it.	I'm a hopeless student.	Hello?	Who are you, asshole?	What?	Who's calling?	Why were you naked in a motel with me?	What?	Come out!	To Bupyung station now!	Uh...	How could she do this?	I went to jail and got beaten with a vacuum for her.	Excuse me.	Is it you?	Yes?	Follow me.	Get over here.	What do you wanna eat?	Cherry Jubilee...	Mango Tango or Shooting Stars...	Jamonka Almond's good, too.	I'll just have a Love Me.	Hey, wanna die?	Drink coffee.	Two coffees.	You pay for it.	Tell me.	What happened last night?	Well, it's...	You were drunk, so...	Don't stumble, and speak clearly!	You see.	You were drunk and staggering at the subway station.	I saved you from the train.	I thought maybe this girl was a snake.	Pretending to be drunk and vomiting to use the guy in a state of confusion.	So I called you honey?	That's right.	I kind of remember that.	You showered to wash off vomit and sweat, and the police came?	That's right.	Would you believe that, too?	To a girl like this, you need to show her who's the boss.	So I did that, right?	Yes, you did.	- Sorry, it's late.	- Yeah...	When she's not drunk, she's just my type.	You look prettier and livelier than yesterday.	Are you mocking me?	No, I'm not.	Then are you hitting on me?	I don't wanna date you.	We're not destined for each other.	Throw the trash away.	Damn it.	I think she's a heavy drinker.	You order.	Kimchi soup and Soju, please.	Eat Golbangee.	Then you should order.	Stop pouting!	Golbangee, please.	Let's go somewhere fun later.	I know what that means.	- A motel?	Are you rich?	- Of course.	How much will you give us?	We'll see, so don't worry.	You kids are prostituting, huh?	Why'd you order Golbangee?	Eat something else!	What's it to you?	Mind your own business.	We're just having a drink with some friends.	What's wrong?	You take friends to a motel?	How old are you kids?	Old enough to drink.	Mind your own business.	Think I'm doing this 'cause you're drinking?	Show me your ID.	You, too.	What's with you?	Show it, now.	This sucks.	She's a vicious chick.	No matter how pretty she is,	I'm too embarrassed to be with her.	Who are you to butt in other people's business?	- Don't you have a daughter?	- I don't.	Bear me one.	Who the hell do you think you are?	- How dare you?	- Come on, let's fight!	Come on!	I'll show you.	Don't live like that!	Catch up with the girls.	Have a drink and calm down.	Shit!	Ah!	Seeing a girl cry makes me sad for some reason.	She's more attractive the closer I look at her.	Did you blow your nose on this?	No.	Please, stop crying.	Also...	The handkerchief is mine.
Forget about this bastard, and look for a nice guy.	Got it?	Deserter:	Go!	/Girl:	let's go together.	Girl:	All three of us.	Deserter:	Will you leave if I kill him?	Girl:	Gyeon-woo.	Don't worry too much.	Girl:	This soldier isn't a bad guy.	Girl:	You'll come out safely.	Gyeon-woo:(Sobbing) You're leaving me alone?	Girl:	There's no other way.	Deserter:	I was afraid to die alone, but I'm glad we're in it together.	(The sound of radio signal)	Gyeon-woo:	Oh, right.	Gyeon-woo:	Over there,	Gyeon-woo:there's an exit near the merry-go-round.	Gyeon-woo:	Nobody knows about it.	Gyeon-woo:	I used to work here.	Deserter:	Really?	Deserter:	You're not tricking me, right?	Gyeon-woo:	I'm a man, too.	Why would I?	Deserter:	Walk in front of me.	Gyeon-woo:	See?	I told you so.	(The radio signal)	Soldier 1 :	This way!	Deserter:	Shit!	(Gyeon-woo screaming and running away)	Friend 1 :	What's going on?	It's Gyeon-woo.	Deserter:	Screw you!	Don't come closer!	Deserter:	I'll kill him!	I'll really kill him!	(A deserter shooting in the air)	Deserter:	Tell that bitch to come!	So she can see me die!	Deserter:	I'll give you an hour!	Deserter:	If not, I'll kill him, and myself, too!	Deserter:	Got it?	/Gyeon-woo:	Hurry up!	Radio:	Sniper 2!	Sniper:	The hostage is in danger, but we can still fire.	(Shooting)	Girl:	Don't!	Wait!	Don't shoot!	(The radio signal still going on)	Girl:	Hey, soldier!	I mean sir!	Girl:	Your girlfriend changed her mind, right?	Girl:	Did you really love her?	Girl:	Ask yourself.	Girl:	I think you didn't.	Girl:	If you really love her,	Girl:you should let her go.	Girl:	If not, then it's not love.	Girl:	What's wrong with someone you don't love getting married?	Girl:	Stop this,	Girl:and go back to base as a real man.	Girl:	A person like you should learn more about love.	Girl:(Crying)If we want to learn,	Girl:then we should keep living.	Deserter:(Crying) Damn it.	Deserter:	She's the nicest girl I've met.	Deserter:	Hey!	Don't let her go.	Got it?	Deserter:	If you do, I'll take her.	Gyeon-woo:	Can I go?	/Deserter:	Go.	Screw it.	Friend 1 :	Shit!	Don't know.	(Fireworking) Pop!	Pop!	Deserter:	Thank you.	Today's my birthday.	Deserter:	I'll live on until I learn what love is.	Girl:	What?	We're just friends?	Gyeon-woo:	No, I said that to save you.	Girl:	let me go, instead?	Girl:	Wanted to save yourself, huh?	Gyeon-woo:	He wouldn't have let you go.	Girl:	Stop lying!	Stop lying!	Stop lying!	Girl:	Have a nice life alone.	Gyeon-woo:(Monolog) I screwed up her birthday, but I feel good anyway.	'Cause I'm proud to be with her, and things turned out as planned.	I hope you believe in me.	You can't?	Wait...	Second Half	Waiter:	I remember.	Waiter:	She always came with him until last year.	Waiter:	Was it last spring or autumn?	Waiter:	One day, she came alone with flowers to ask a favor.	Waiter:	To not let anyone sit in his seat that day.	Girl:	What's up?	Gyeon-woo:	Oh, hi.	Girl:	You're early.	Gyeon-woo:	I was in the neighborhood.	Girl:	Miss me?	Gyeon-woo:	Of course!	Gyeon-woo:(Monolog) She always tried hard to look cheerful.	Gyeon-woo:	I like her that way.	/Waiter:	What would you like?	Gyeon-woo:	Coke, please.	Girl:	Wanna die?	Drink coffee.	Girl:	Two coffees, please.	(Gyeon-woo grinning) He he he~	Gyeon-woo:(Monolog) I know her.	She pretends to be happy, but she's full of sorrow inside.	Girl:	What are you doing?	What are you smiling at?	Gyeon-woo:	No.	It's nothing.	Girl:	looks fun, huh?	Gyeon-woo:	Another one?	/Girl:	Why?	Don't wanna read it?	Gyeon-woo:(Monolog) She may get disappointed,	Gyeon-woo:but I should be honest for her sake.	Gyeon-woo:	looks fun.	I'll read it.	(Girl laughing brightly) Ha ha ha~	The heroine is a bounty hunter.	The villain wears rain slippers even on clear days.	The worst of his kind.	(People around a montage in commotion)	Man 1 :	What happened?	His name's Gyeon-woo?	Man 2:	Gyeon-woo?	Gyeon-woo:	The story's setting is a mess.	Japan invades during King Sejong's reign, and the king's father is the tyrant Yeonsan.	In the end, the heroine fights the villain in a field.	Heavy rain pours down on a sunny day.	(Cunningly laugh) He he he~	(Gyeon-woo screaming and running for her) Yaaaah~	(Girl drawing a sword) Yup~!	The heroine becomes a king.	King Jung-jo.	She's from the future, of course.	Girl:	It's fun, huh?	Gyeon-woo:	Why is the heroine always from the future?	Girl:	Science is advanced then,
Get up.	Sit down.	Roll right.	Roll left.	Do it right.	Keep going!	What's going on there?	Stop fooling around.	Hey!	You low-life thieves.	What officer?	/ Keep quiet.	Low-life thieves?	Damn it.	Hey.	Want some of this?	/No thanks.	Try it.	It's delicious.	No. / Hey, boy.	Pay attention to your elders.	Eat it, buttbrain.	I told you no.	How many times did I tell you?	Am I your toy?	Leave me alone you petty thieves!	Stop toying with me, you jerks!	It's humiliating!	Oh, shit!	Good morning.	Keep quiet!	/Thank you.	Thank you.	You bastard!	Do that again, and you're dead.	What?	Are you free, baby?	Your English is good, too.	Better behave!	Wanna die?	Taste good?	It's so delicious.	You're very happy to see me, aren't you?	Be good to me... and you'll always be with good luck.	If I sleep out, mom beats me with whatever's in her hand.	If she's sweeping, it's a broom stick	If she's cleaning, it's a vacuum.	When I'm lucky, it's a cucumber or eggplant.	So I have to come at the right time.	You studying now?	Yes, I'm.	I'm looking over something on the internet.	Go to bed now. /You too, dad.	All right, good night!	/Good night.	Ok then, I'm gonna have a sleep too.	You're not looking at dirty pictures, right?	Of course not, dad.	You don't trust me?	No, I do.	Time for bed.	Go to sleep. /Good night, dad.	Uh?	Hi, Gyeon-woo.	My birthday's in two days.	You're dead if you forget.	Got it?	Since I like you so much, better make me smile like this. * * ¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬	Got it?	I got it.	Phew!	Her birthday.	If I prepare nothing, she may murder me.	I have a good idea.	Before going to the service, I worked in a theme park.	So this is my plan.	At midnight, I'll be alone with her in the park.	It'll be completely dark all around us.	One by one, the lights to the merry-go-round flick on.	I raise my arms up there, and her birthday song starts.	Then all the lights turn on and it moves.	There's fireworks, too.	Isn't it fantastic?	She'll be thrilled.	I gave 200,000 won to my friends working there.	Jump over here?	/Yeah.	We have to.	I always wanted to come here at night.	It's my birthday, not yours.	Please, let's just try.	I'll go up first and help you.	Eh?	There's a step here.	Take my hand.	Oh, shit!	Shit!	Gyeon-woo.	Hey!	Answer me.	I'm leaving.	I'm leaving.	Answer me!	Gyeon-woo!	You're dead.	Wait till I catch you.	Why didn't you answer?	Wanna die?	Come with me!	Hurry and get in.	Shut up!	Go in fast.	Move it.	Sit here.	If you're loud, I'll kill you.	Got it?	Yes.	Answer quietly!	/ Yes.	Is that a real gun?	Wanna see?	/ Forget it.	How are you two related?	We're just friends.	Really?	You mean she could be my pussy?	What?	Your pussy?	I'm not a cat or anything!	Go ahead and apolize!	Alright.	I'll do it.	I'm sorry.	Anyway, friends come here late at night?	Why are you here?	We just wanted to come here at night.	Tell me the truth, idiot. / Nothing special.	Bullshit.	What makes you trust a guy like him?	I trusted myself.	I had a girlfriend, too.	She visited me every week for one year.	I was so happy.	But that bitch fell in love with the guard house sergeant.	I found out the fact after he was discharged.	Damn it.	While I'm in the service, even my dog... ran away with some mutt, too.	My Yorkshire terrier.	Bitch.	Fuck.	I came out to kill both bitches.	Fuck.	I have the worst luck in this world.	Damn it.	Know what special day is it today?	Huh, damn it?	This sucks!	Hey, what are the odds to meet a runaway soldier in a park?	Don't know.	Heard your head blows up if you shoot in the mouth.	Yeah, the hole in your head is this big.	That's serious.	A teeny bullet does that?	Yeah, the bullet tears the...	Hey!	What are you two doing?	Stop joking around.	Damn it.	Damn it!	Even you bastards ignore me.	That's why don't be foolish. /Why am I foolish?	Even if you do this, she won't come back.	I know. I know, too.	But if I die, she'll be heartbroken.	She'll never be the same.	You're wrong.	The pain goes away sooner than you think.	You went through something like this?	Yeah.	It happens that way.	Damn it.	If I'm caught, I'll go to the can.	I'll always think of her there.	What does 'can' mean?	It means prison.	Don't interrupt. /Sorry.	Anyway, you're responsible for your actions now.	Excuse me, sir.	How about letting her go?	If I say no?	Then  let me go, instead.	Come to think of it, your eyebrows remind me of that sergeant.
What's sad about it?	It's sad when she asked to be buried in the clothes reminiscent of her love.	I couldn't sleep for one week.	The ending sucks.	Gotta change it.	How?	It's sad.	Her family couldn't afford to pay for her medicine.	Their family line is broken up now.	But you know, she must have been an extraordinary girl.	Gyeon-woo's mother:	Why?	This was her last request.	When I die, please bury me with my loving friend.	Gyeon-woo's mother:	What?	To bury him alive, even.	Oh, my gosh.	What's the matter?	/ What's wrong?	No way!	This is wrong!	This is wrong!	This is wrong!	Please.	Don't!	Bury him!	They bury him alive.	Isn't it sad?	I must be hurt still.	I think I'll never get over him.	How deep could it be?	I don't know.	Gyeon-woo, go in the water.	I wanna know how deep it is.	Come on.	Help me!	Help me!	Wow, it's deep.	I can't swim!	Yes, it's deep...	My mind was getting blurry.	At that moment...	Heard you got a girlfriend.	Introduce me.	Really?	/ I'm serious.	Is she pretty?	Have you kissed her?	Girlfriend?	Gonna introduce me or not?	She really pretty?	What are you looking at?	See that girl over there?	She's my girlfriend from today.	Got it?	Hey...	Excuse me...	Hey, baby.	Are you free?	/ Hey?	What?	Baby?	Hey!	Come here.	Hmm!	How could a coincidence like this happen?	Reportedly say there is an accident of runaway soldier...	Hello?	You call a wrong number or the dial is not in service.	Please, call again.	You call a wrong number or the dial is not in service.	Please, call again.	Let's drink.	Drink till we die.	1 hours ago It's me.	Where are you?	What are you doing?	Meeting your friends?	Can't I join us, can I?	Why not?	I wanna see your friends!	Hey!	Hey!	Now, you're dead.	Excuse me...	You've just forgotten your things.	Oh my gosh!	It's kind of you, thanks.	Do you want me to hold it for you?	Oh no.	That's all right. /All right then.	I'll help you, ma'am.	Oh, thank you. /No problem.	Watch your step!	Hey, money!	Ooh!	Damn it!	Since I'm drunk,	I decided to take revenge on her.	If I'm out cold at Bupyung station, then she'll have to carry me on her back.	This stop is Bupyung station...	Hey, kid.	Wake up.	Wake up.	Where am I?	I'm at Inchon station.	Be here in 30 minutes.	Wake up.	Get up, idiot.	Go away, buttbrain.	Talking back?	Get up, bastard!	/ What the...	How're you?	Hi!	How are you?	Oh, how is it going?	What?	Go away, buttbrain?	You got a bad mouth.	I'll set you straight the gangster's way.	On your head.	Get up.	Sit down.	Get up.	Sit down.	Roll right.	Roll left.	Do it right.	Keep going!	What's going on there?	Stop fooling around.	Hey!	You low-life thieves.	What officer?	/ Keep quiet.	Low-life thieves?	Damn it.	Hey.	Want some of this?	/No thanks.	Try it.	It's delicious.	No. / Hey, boy.	Pay attention to your elders.	Eat it, buttbrain.	I told you no.	How many times did I tell you?	Am I your toy?	Leave me alone you petty thieves!	Stop toying with me, you jerks!	It's humiliating!	Oh, shit!	Good morning.	Keep quiet!	/Thank you.	Thank you.	You bastard!	Do that again, and you're dead.	What?	Are you free, baby?	Your English is good, too.	Better behave!	Wanna die?	Taste good?	It's so delicious.	You're very happy to see me, aren't you?	Be good to me... and you'll always be with good luck.	If I sleep out, mom beats me with whatever's in her hand.	If she's sweeping, it's a broom stick	If she's cleaning, it's a vacuum.	When I'm lucky, it's a cucumber or eggplant.	So I have to come at the right time.	You studying now?	Yes, I'm.	I'm looking over something on the internet.	Go to bed now. /You too, dad.	All right, good night!	/Good night.	Ok then, I'm gonna have a sleep too.	You're not looking at dirty pictures, right?	Of course not, dad.	You don't trust me?	No, I do.	Time for bed.	Go to sleep. /Good night, dad.	Uh?	Hi, Gyeon-woo.	My birthday's in two days.	You're dead if you forget.	Got it?	Since I like you so much, better make me smile like this. * * ¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬¦¬	Got it?	I got it.	Phew!	Her birthday.	If I prepare nothing, she may murder me.	I have a good idea.	Before going to the service, I worked in a theme park.	So this is my plan.	At midnight, I'll be alone with her in the park.	It'll be completely dark all around us.	One by one, the lights to the merry-go-round flick on.	I raise my arms up there, and her birthday song starts.	Then all the lights turn on and it moves.
Sorry I didn't tell you before.	Auntie:	This is Gyeon-woo.	Doesn't he resemble him?	Auntie:	When you had a hard time,	Auntie:	I tried to introduce you to him for several years,	Auntie:but he kept getting out of it.	Auntie:	Heard you came to Bupyung often,	Auntie:but you never visited me?	Auntie:	Go out with him.	Auntie:	I thought he'd make things easy for you.	Auntie:	Oh, yeah.	Gyeon-woo, you're going to england, right?	Auntie:	She's already been there, so she can give you some tips.	Gyeon-woo:	I don't have to go now.	Auntie:	Why?	You two know each other?	girl:	You may not believe it, but I think I met a man from the future.	girl:	From your future.	Gyeon-woo:(MonoIog) This is how I met her again.	Think it's too coincidental?	It's building a bridge of chance for your love.
And all these time the 7 Rats try so hard to make you leave	They've always been that clueless	And all this time we fought for you	Then we are stupid too?	You guys are pretty clueless as well!	What are you doing?	Leaving with you guys!	You're giving up your job here?	Right!	Do you know how to drive a taxi?	No	Want to work at 7-11?	No.	How about the bar?	You wear sexy nurse uniform to entertain men	No	Anything else you can do?	Don't go, go on being a doctor!	Yes	Take care!	Good-bye!	Doctor	Who are you?	I love you!	What did you do to yourself?	I spent all my money on plastic surgery	Am I good-looking?	Sorry, but I have a crush on a doctor	Please don't do anything more for me	Thank you	You're really good-looking	How is my car?	I'm sorry, we've done everything	This auto shop is reliable	I hope you can donate the parts	I listed here to it	Honey!	The flood washed away more than one hundred people	That includes a Civil Aid Service unit and the Fire Service dispatched to rescue the Civil Aid Service unit and the SDU unit dispatched to rescue the Fire Service unit and the Water Team dispatched to rescue the SDU lightning has killed and injured	more than 70 people	Certify!	The observatory has set a new record by hosting the storm warning signal for 9 times within 7 days	The government asks citizens to stay in safe shelters	Where is Sir Ho?	Where is Sir Ho?	He's gone	Where can he be?	At 9:20 this evening lightning struck the power plant at the Peak	It knocked out all electricity on the island and caused many deadly accidents	Most of the accidents took place at southern Hong Kong	However, Queen Mary Hospital in the area lost its back-up generator	It couldn't initiate without any electricity	The authority will divert patients ...to Sir Ho Kau Kei Hospital	The hospital asks all of its medical personnel ...to return to their post immediately	Sir Ho Kau Kei Hospital missioned air conditioned shuttle bus ...will send a free to pick its personnel	10 minutes ago a soil conservation wall collapsed	A public bus and a tourist bus overturned and crashed	There is a large number of injured passengers	The accident happened near Ho Kau Kei hospital	Pacing back and forth, can't make up your mind	Don't hesitate, go!	You've been low-spirited ever since you came back	Your heart is at another place	Come out!	Everyone out!	Your enjoy talking to me from underneath the cars?	Where else should car mechanics be?	The chassis needs repair	What's with the erect wipers and the flashing signal lights?	Stop hesitating.	Go!	There are lives to save!	Thanks!	How did the door open with power?	Benz is sick	Didn't come to work today	You are late	What are you doing?	Friendship is one thing, money is another	What are you doing now?	If I'm paying, might as well make myself comfortable	Drive!	You can't come through!	I'm a doctor	What?	I'm a doctor!	Me too!	You don't look like a doctor	You don't look like a cop	Good point	Go ahead	Don't give me a ticket	You can't come through!	We are nurse	You don't like nurse	We don't look like nurse?	What makes us nurse?	I take it back, go ahead	You don't have to	Thanks!	Throat is swollen	CAT 1!	No breathing, no pulse!	Hold on	Trachea tube!	Doctor!	Hold on!	Trachea tube!	Clear!	O2!	300!	Just finished medical school?	Barely one month	How can they send a new guy here?	I'm the most experienced doctor in the hospital	Give him oxygen	Jim!	Give him oxygen	Doctor!	You all came	What a pity!	Someone could die!	Don't just stand here get on with the rescue!	$170 including tolls for the tunnel	You took the long route!	BB123, my name is Leon Lai, go sue me!	$170!	$150!	I didn't charge you for the luggage	You call these luggage?	You	We're doctors!	These two look more like it!	Your name?	Lam Wai Keung	Doctor, you have a fishy smell	Don't worry, I'll be careful	No, you have a fishy smell	Of course it'll hurt a bit	You crashed a car, not a bicycle!	No, doctor	You have a fishy smell	Do you know where you are?	How do you feel?	I know I'm at a fish market and you smell really bad	He's unconscious.	CAT 1	Where are they?	Over there!	This way?	Told you was over there!	Buddy, your name and your status?	Are you OK?	I'm a gangster, nothing major	Just have a problem with you	How dare you to show up at my turf?	I'll kick your ass!
One of the most visually suggestive love foods is the oyster.	Said by some to look like testicles when in the shell and by others to blatantly suggest a woman's anatomy,	Oysters are also a good natural source of zinc, a mineral necessary for the production of testosterone, believed to be the sex drive hormone in men and women.	But, some argue that you would have to eat dozens of oysters for them to jump-start your libido.	Not all of the fabled foods' powers have to do with their vitamin and mineral content.	When it comes to being a hot-blooded lover, the chili pepper may hold the key.	The spicy substance in hot foods called capsaicin causes nerve endings to release substance P, a neurotransmitter that stimulates a burning sensation.	Our pulse is raised and we sweat more just as we do during sex.	Some believe that eating hot foods can also trigger the release of endorphins, body chemicals that give us a natural high.	And of course there is the ultimate lovers' gift -chocolate.	Used for centuries as an aphrodisiac part of its lure comes from its sensuous melting quality.	If you're talking about like sweets or something like that it would have to be like chocolate syrup.	You know because for one it's sweet, and it's, it's durable, you know I mean you can place it wherever you want you know, and then.	And you know the next place it's going is your mouth so it's like you get 1 and 2.	Chocolate contains a substance called Phenylethylamine which is a stimulant, it's considered the love chemical.	It gives one a sense of well being and excitement.	And that's thought to be a chemical it's very similar to the endorphins that our body produces that give us that natural high.	Some scientist believe this chemical in chocolate is broken down before it can 'turn us on', but others say it may be one of the reasons why lovers will be buyingg up to 36 million boxes of chocolate in the United States	next Valentine's Day!	The writer Dorothy Parker has become legendary for sayingg,	"I wish I could drink like a lady.	I can take one or two at the most.	Three I'm under the table.	Four I'm under the host!"	Aside from the fact that a bit of alcohol reduces our inhibitions, some studies have found that alcohol actually raises testosterone levels in women but not in men.	But drinkers beware.	Too much alcohol, in both men and women, will put anyone's libido to sleep.	Chicago Classic Rock Station, CD94.7.	Hi, this is Dr. Alan Hirsch and we're looking for couples to volunteer for a test of kissing to see what odors and food tastes will enhance arousal.	Just give us a call...	Okay, so what I want you to do is put your head back, stick your tongue out that's good.	And kiss.	Maria and Frank are 2 of the 500 neurologist, Dr. Alan Hirsch has been testing.	Over the last five years he's worked to measure the effect of taste and smell on arousal.	I had heard that Dr. Hirsch uses food to enhance the sexual pleasures and stuff and so I was interested in that aspect of it because I thought that maybe we could bring something new into, you know, the bedroom.	I want you to rate how much you liked the kiss, or disliked it.	How sexy you thought it was, how much you liked the way his kiss tasted, how much you desire to have another kiss from him.	Okay.	We began to study using foods as aphrodisiacs because we found that when people lose their sense of smell or taste they develop sexual dysfunction.	So the connection became apparent.	Almost 100 years ago, Sigmund Freud said that in order for us to remain a civilized society we had to repress our sense of smell, otherwise we would walk around sexually excited all the time.	Dr. Hirsch has been testing this theory for over 10 years.	Up to 3,000 test subjects later he has found that certain food smells are so sexually exciting they actually increase penile and vaginal blood flow.	When we inhale an aroma odor molecules enter the nose and stimulate small hairs called cilia to send messages to the brain.	One part of the brain that receives these messages is the limbic system, often called the 'pleasure center'.	The signals then travel down to the spinal cord, and just like the food and herbal aphrodisiacs, cause blood to rush to the genitals.
february 17th 1673 at the royal palace the 4th performance of the Imaginary Invalid	the silly graduation of Argan as a doctor	this is not acted Molière is really dying	The End the intertitles for "Molière" were added in 2008 by Gaumont.	This restauration was possible thanks to the original scenario located at the BNF, the department for Performance Arts
Coupeau's engagement to Gervaise in September 1872	Following shortly	Part Two	Coupeau swears to drink no more	One year after his marriage to Gervaise	Two years later Coupeau is cured	Gervaise's birthday	Four years after Virginie takes revenge	The first absinthe	Three years later.	A scene in the pub	Coupeau bets with Lantier to drink eight glasses of brandy whilst the clock strikes eight	Following shortly	Part Three	Two years later Coupeau leaves hospital	He is told that drinking alcohol will prove fatal for him.	Though he can drink a little wine	The revenge of Virginie	She changes the bottle of wine for one of brandy	The End
So you'll keep bribing them with protection fees?	Now the Japs will expand their power into these areas	Then it'll be the last of diplomatic immunity	Terrorism is barbarism, and it's internationally condemned	We have to change our society through enlightenment	Look, you think terrorism is all about guns and knives, but that's the decent part of it	The Japs should be hacked to death	Dol-Suk!	Sir!	Let me take care of that damn Governor-General	I'll finish him with my blade	Our guest is leaving	Show him the way out	You fellows think carefully about what I said	Seregay, here's the photo and the address	I'm standing here!	Geez!	What's wrong?	Are you sick?	My headache's worse	Let's get it treated for good after you get back	After I leave, you sleep with her	Help me fall out of love	Before a big kill, we always took a picture	Since it could be our last moment alive	One	Two	Three	You know that dancing lady?	That lady's your girlfriend?	Am I right?	But a gun is more reliable than a knife, right?	It depends on how you use it	He's enormous	Then there's plenty to stab at	A Russian hooker went in	She looks expensive	I guess he's got the money	Will you cut his throat or stab the heart?	You want to be the next Sabinkov?	Find out for yourself what killing is like	I think a stab in the heart will be better	The important thing is to avoid the ribs	Insert vertically under the left nipple	Don't you miss home?	Now it's not home anymore	I heard you were from a royal family	It's been a while since I threw away my family name	I saw you reading a very interesting book	About anarchism	It's the ideology of the person that I love	So you learned the language of the one you love?	I was born in Chosun.	My mother was a Chosun woman	Will you give me the honor of a toast with the royal family?	Seregay!	Seregay!	Seregay only sent me back	We divided the money to reduce the risk	But Seregay didn't come back	And I came back eating only eggs for 7 days	Our leader was furious and ordered us to bring him back	The other members were sent	We were completely excluded from the operation	But with Lee Geun's efforts...	Seregay was handed over to us	Did you forget how he protected us when he was tortured?	He's also very sick, and he's not himself	You shouldn't have saved him without any authorization	In the end, you got in the way of his honorable death	Since then, Seregay's wasted...	Still, that's not fair!	How can they tell us to kill a comrade?	There are hundreds of members besides us	You know that we're being harshly punished for them	Why do you ignore that?	You don't care about Seregay at all	You care that it's humiliating since it happened to us!	Let's stop it there	Please take the life that you saved	There's been a change of plans	Seregay was a great fighter	An activist who didn't need anything at all	Maybe Seregay was never meant to be one of us	I heard the gunshot from the opposite side	I was afraid and the guys didn't know what to say	Those who are here today have no right to mourn	That's because we are still cowardly alive	During last Kwang Dong earthquake,	Japanese had mercilessly massacred thousand of our people	With the remaining ashes of a Chosun fighter in front of us,	I dare declare...	He was in a such a bad state that we had to cremate him	We found out that Minami, Gato and Kuboda did it	For whatever it takes, we intend to seek retribution	Let's renew our resolutions	All members and officials of the Provisional government, please remain to take a photo in memory of today	Everybody, look over here One, two, three	Hey Kuboda!	Where's Minami-san?	I don't know	You don't?	Idiot!	Oh, Kaneko-san, it's an honor for me, Minami	What's the matter?	Did you have to take advantage of Kaneko as well?	What?	I'm trying to relieve the sadness of a woman who...	You made no scruples to attain your goals	You're exploiting Kaneko	Don't forget that hundreds of our people are dividing into nationalists or socialists	How can we bring them together to fight our enemy?	I'm talking about your coldness to use women in a revolution	You said that a rebel is cold	- Hearted as well as passionate	That terrorists are cold flames	You, me, Kim Ku and Dan-Jae, we're being exploited for the revolution	Isn't your judgment these days being obscured by a woman?
The diversions of the emperor.	Sylvia, who persecutes Sebastian with her zeal, charges him with the emperor as a christian.	The emperor orders Sebastian's capture.	On the track of the guilty.	The martyr's death of Sebastian.
The angel of life points the path followed by Death	Do you want to go through?	Give me your hair.	In the Kingdom of Death The clocks of life	The fountain of Fate	There it is.	Your son's life!	Childhood	In his twenties	Damn you life!	Stop his life...	Death is better than dishonor.
Kiss, kiss, kiss for Aunt Desi.	Here, take this, my darling.	Go on, and be careful.	You had them, but they're mine.	You're such a mother hen!	As you like kids so much, why don't you have one?	I can't have any.	An obstetrician in Madrid told me so.	- It was time I told you.	- What know-it-all dared say that?	They told my grandmother the same and she got a natality award.	They're only guessing.	I'll be godfather to the first three.	You're right.	You end up sick of kids.	Meanwhile, we can lend you ours so you can practice.	Just one week.	That's enough.	Two weeks.	- What is all this?	- We're going to Turkey and we thought...	I accept.	It's impossible.	Why?	Because we're going too.	A husbands' plot.	What about a toast?	To Turkey?	- To Ramiro.	- To Turkey.	Is it true about the doctor?	Yes.	Don't lose heart.	There's something stronger than doctors.	I'll never reproach you for anything.	You're enough to make me happy.	Do you hear?	Yes.	- What is it?	- I feel dizzy.	You don't look well.	Girls!	Come on!	I can't stand the smell of spices.	Spices?	What do you mean?	I was told that Turkey smells of spices, of soup with spices.	- I can smell it now.	- I don't smell anything.	I do.	And I can't stand it.	Maybe your gynecologist was wrong.	First shot of your expressions in Istanbul.	Don't look so serious.	Arturo, I have your camera.	We are in Byzantium, in Constantinople, in Istanbul.	Welcome.	Constantine VI, Emperor of the East called Asia Minor Anatolia.	It means "the country where the sun is born".	In the glorious era of the Ottoman Empire the West invented the image of a barbarous Turk.	This was adorned with a complaisant tendency towards sensuality.	Neither was true.	Europe's idea of us has always fluctuated between fear and enchantment.	Western civilization was born here with Miletus, Anaximander, Heracliteus.	Gods, heroes and the Christian apostles.	The Iliad and the Odyssey.	We Turks are Europeans like you.	Don't be afraid of us.	Skyscrapers are as much a part of Istanbul as St. Sophia and the Topkapi which you have come to see but the city still has that charm acquired over the centuries.	Istanbul lies between two worlds, two seas, two continents, Europe and Asia.	Two of the seven wonders of the world...	She fainted.	She's been feeling odd.	- You're all right, aren't you?	- Ramiro?	I'm here, don't worry.	- Are you pregnant?	- Be quiet.	You're feeling better.	That's good.	Are you all right?	Calmer?	Will he bite?	Will it hurt when he bites?	My name is Yaman.	It means "the only one".	And I will do anything so that you fall in love with this country.	Turkey is paradise, ma'am.	"From Istanbul to heaven." Don't they say that in Madrid?	Coffee, sherbets, the ottoman the divan and raisins are all Turkish inventions.	And who hasn't heard of, or tasted, Turkish delights?	Our baths, ladies and gentlemen, are famous throughout the world.	When you were still in the Dark Middle Ages we lived in a world of pleasure and voluptuousness.	We are arriving at the hotel.	You can rest, or do whatever you wish because this guide is at your complete and entire disposal.	- How are you?	- I'm fine.	You see to the cases.	Marcelo!	- Arturo, the camera!	- He took it with him.	- Have you got over the dizziness?	- Yes.	May I?	Thank you.	Forgive me.	Welcome.	What's your name?	I'm still called Yaman.	- Which means "the only one".	- That's right.	- My name is Desideria.	- It's a pretty name.	Desi...	Come on.	Laura!	- How are you?	- I'm fine.	I won't ask again.	We'll give you the all-clear.	You can rest until lunchtime.	I don't think they have a siesta.	We have two options.	A siesta and a visit to the mosques.	Or the cisterns and mosques and no siesta.	Which do you prefer?	A siesta.	What about you?	As you wish.	When the Turks took possession of Constantinople in 1453 one of the first actions by the Sultan Mehmed the Conqueror was to bury in this spot the man who had been...	The mosque and its mausoleum were built in 1458.	And soon they were surrounded by a huge, well-shaded cemetery in which the Ottoman nobles and pious people wanted to enjoy in a posthumous way the benefits of the holy man's proximity.	The light, as you see is reflected in the marble and in the ivory of the ninety nine windows with lattices.
Locusta, your son is dead.	Nero is mad about the failure of the plan.	Nero greets Brittanicus and sends you this pretty slave girl from Chio.	She brings with her a jug of precious wine from her country.	Drink this, and keep the girl as sign of our friendship.	Nero.	My son drank from the wine that you sent to Brittanicus.	Ha, ha, ha, wasn't the wine made by you yourself?
HOMER'S ODYSSEY Cinematic rendering of the greatest poem of ancient Greek literature	Costumes from the tailorshops of the Scala Theatre in Milan.	Scenes after old drawings that are in the famous Brera library (Milan).	The adventures of Ulysses after the poem by Homer THE ODYSSEY	The departure of Ulysses	Ulysses says goodbye to his wife Penelope, his son Telemachus, his old father Laertes, ...and leaves Ithaka, to go to the war against Troy.	The ships of Ulysses leave Ithaca	Believing Ulysses to be dead, the suitors take possession of his house and demand that Penelope choose a new husband among them.	Penelope manages to put off the choice of the new husband as long as until she will have finished weaving the shroud.	At night she undoes the stitches.	Caught by the suitors doing this, she promises to complete the work.	After the destruction of Troy, Ulysses sets sail with his companions to return home.	Ulysses lands on the island of the cyclope Polyphemus.	Polyphemus devours one of Ulysses' companions.	Ulysses blinds the terrible Polyphemus.	Ulysses flees from Polyphemus with the surviving companions.	Ulysses flees with his companions from the cave of Polyphemus, letting the sheep carry them.	After the stolen sheep have been brought on the ships, Ulysses pushes away from land with his companions.	Ulysses mocks Polyphemus from the ships.	Polyphemus hurls a rock at Ulysses' ship and begs for Neptune's revenge.	To escape the seductive call of the sirens, Ulysses blocks the ears of his companions with wax, ...and has himself tied to the mast of the ship.	During the passage through the strait of Scylla and Charybdis Ulysses' ship looses six more companions, whom the monster eats.	Ulysses lands in Sicily, where the sacred bulls of Jupiter are located.	End of the first part.	A short break in order to prepare the second part.	Ulysses, who removed himself from his companions, is called back by the smoke of burning bulls.	Aching with hunger, despite his warnings, Ulysses' companions feed on the meat of the sacred bulls.	Jupiter delivers the lightning on Ulysses' ship to avenge himself.	Only Ulysses saves himself and reaches the island of Calypso.	Where he spends seven years.	Calypso, by will of the gods, advises Ulysses to build a raft to return home.	Ulysses goes to work.	After a moving farewell, Ulysses leaves the island of Calypso.	To avenge Polyphemus, the seagod Neptune steers the ship to sea.	Saved by a miracle, Ulysses goes ashore at the mouth of a stream.	Nausicaa, the daughter of the Phaeacian king Alcinous, welcomes Ulysses, ...gives him clothes, and advises him that he head for her father.	Ulysses heads for the palace of the king.	After a cordial reception he recounts his adventures.	...he is given precious presents.	The ship of Alcinous finally takes Ulysses back to his homeland.	The sleeping Ulysses is brought ashore.	End of the second reel.	One moment please to prepare the second part.	The goddess Minerva changes Ulysses into an old beggar, so that he isn't recognized by the suitors.	Ulysses heads for the hut of the old shepherd Eumaeus.	Here he also finds his son Telemachus.	Minerva orders Ulysses to reveal himself to his son Telemachus.	With help from Minerva, Telemachus recognizes his father.	The suitors maltreat the beggar.	Loathly Ulysses observes the flirtations of his maids with the suitors.	Ulysses hides with his son Telemachus the suitors' weapons.	Penelope declares to wish to marry he among the suitors who is capable to string the bow of Ulysses.	Ulysses watches the inability of the suitors at stringing his bow, and now has his bow handed to himself.	Ulysses starts a massacre among the suitors.	Finally Penelope recognizes the husband and embraces him.	The end.
Dramatic War Story By D. J. Rector	Original Film	Fifth film by Asta Nielsen in the 1911 Series.	In collaboration with:	Marquis de Bougival	- Max Obala	Yvonne, his daughter	- Asta Nielsen	Lieutenant von Mallwitz	- Rob. von Valberg.	Vujrat, leader of the partisans	- Emil Albes.	At the outpost.	Lieutenant von Mallwitz receives an order to occupy the castle.	Tell my daughter,	I wish to present the honorable lieutenant!	Between patriotism and love.	He liked to ....	Does not come .....	Fragrant greetings.	In the troops' barracks.	Rejected.	A brief pause before Act II.	Second act.	The temptress.	Alarm!	Duty above all else.	Revenge.	Partisans.	10 pm:	The signal.	A brief pause before Act III.	Act III	This was not intended.	Rescue at any price.	The last resort.	It's time.	The last bullet ...... the traitor!	End
Empress Agrippina	Nero	Locusta, the poisoner.	After the death of Claudius, Agrippina has Nero made Emperor, annoying the true heir Britannicus.	Because the government does not dare to oppose Agrippina, it acknowledges Nero as emperor.	Agrippina disapproves of Nero's love for Poppea.	Agrippina threatens Nero that she will help Britannicus to the throne, but despite this he neglects his wife Octavia completely.	Nero tries the effects of a poison, concoted by Locusta, on one of his oppressed slaves.	The threats of Agrippina have failed.	Britannicus is poisoned.	Nero's lust is not yet satisfied, and he entrusts Anicetus with a terrible assignment.	Agrippina, growing suspicious, leaves the imperial palace.	Anicetus' scheme.	Agrippina tries to save herself but the implacable hatred of Emperor Nero decides Agrippina's fate.	She died by Anicetus' dagger.
Thieves of public money, men converted into snakes and vice versa.	Eighth Circle	Fraudulent counselors, each wrapped in a flame.	"...	Odysseus and Diomedes are in there, tortured ..."	Ninth Circle	Those who sow discord and schisms, mutilated by demons.	Muhammad with his torn chest.	Born Bertram head disembodied.	"Gripping the head hair cut short, like a lantern carrying it in your hand."	Tenth Circle	Counterfeiters, converted to lepers, crazy and sick.	The Nembrot, Efialte, Antaeus.	Giant	Anteo holds the poets in his hands.	"...	Slightly in the background, ...	... He led us."	Traitors, submerged in the frozen lake of Cocytus.	The Antenora	The traitors of the motherland.	Dante does not want to reveal who they are.	Count Ugolino, gnawing on the skull of Archbishop Ruggeri.	"From the fierce meal he lifted his mouth."	Count Ugolino recounts the story of his death ... and his sons, in the Tower of Pisa.	"...	And it was me, and blind, groping about for them,	Two days I called to them, but they were dead.	After the pain followed more fasting."	The Tolomea	Friends, traitors.	Friar Alberigo prays to Dante to remove the ice from their eyes.	Judea	The traitors of their benefactors.	Lucifer.	The underground way.	The poets leave hell.	"By which we left to contemplate the stars."	Monument to Dante in Trento, Italy.	"HIGHEST HONORS TO A POET"
The poor wretch was thrown to the lions.	Heliogabalus' entertainment, at the end of a marvellous banquet.	Suddenly he let in unexpected guests.	Terrified the guests fled and ran in the halls of the palace.	The tyrant's end.	After a reign of terror of four years,	Heliogabalus finally got what he rightly deserved from the praetorians who stormed the palace.
- And that's a mistake!	It should have been opened.	- It opens at 8am.	- But this clock is late, always.	- You should point that out to someone.	- It is 8:10am on my watch.	- 7:30am on mine...	- See?	...	- Where should I put this?	- Into that entry!	- You are sweet Mr. ...policeman, if I am right.	- Yeah...	- Uh well... uh, uh.	- Good morning Mr. Boucek!	- Good morning Mrs. Horackova!	- Ok, good.	Sit!	- and wait!	- Mr. Boucek!	- Yes?	- Here are money.	- and as always, fuel please.	- and when I come back around, I'll pick it up.	- Alright Mrs. Horackova.	- Bobina...	- Bobina, come here!	- where is Bobina?	...	- Hooray, greets to this trip!	- I will smile to the aunts!	- One aunt here, the other there!	- I will confuse heads of the aunts!	- Misa, please...	- please promise me you won't sing in front of aunts.	- you promise?	- Where are we?	- Who knows that?	- The aunts will tell it to us!	- We will fall into their trap - and we will remember...	- ...that the street is called after the aunt.	- The Aunt's streeet!	- And what about the bags?	- I'll need to drag them myself again, huh?	- Misa!	- Misa come help me please.	- What?	- Yeah.	- They have nice house.	- The cake and the bottle are in the car.	- Close the door.	- Is it closed?	- The aunts aren't probably at home, but I know how to open it.	- I'll get there.	..	- Look here's...	- Oh no...	- What are you doing?	!	- Yeah what am I doing?	- Come with me...	- Cool.	- Misa...	- I'm telling you to act polite.	- Come on..	- Don't go on the garden!	- Do you see the flowers?	- Jump, come on, jump!	- Michal!	- What are you doing?	!	- I want to eat this apple..	- What are you thinking?	That's very rare apple tree, it has only 5 apples per year!	- and I'm sure the aunt counted the apples!	- I'll put it back.	- Look, here... there.	- much better than before!	- Huh?	That's great, isn't it?	- Look!	A snail.	- What are you walking on?	!	- On nettles, but I don't mind.	- I have shoes on.	- Even if it doesn't seem like that, the garden is full of rare species and you shouldn't step on anything.	- The neighbor Tomecek once mowed the nettles here and there were 18 white Colocasias.	- don't you try to be like Tomecek.	- Michal...	- you didn't exist for the aunts until now.	Today you are here for the first time and it all depends on how will you act!	- I understand!	- I am like new born baby here and the aunts will take me that way.	- The flowers!	The flowers!	- Well... get up please.	- Poor flowers, what are you doing?	!	- You can't sit on the flowers!	- You will act differently when the aunts will know we are engaged and we didn't tell them a word about that.	- and that you are not a professor of Latin and you don't know how to repair a water pump!	- But I am magical!	- especially for old generation and possible mothers-in-law!	- Generous ladies..	- no?	- my old women.	- No.	- My aunts!	- Let me make a proposal to your... godmother.	- what am I saying?	!	Your granddaughter.	No!	Your, your niece.	- Where do you have a flower?	- I'll find something on the garden.	- Here?	!	No way!	- Look, I am a rabbit.	- Bring the cake here and go buy a flower.	- One moment!	- What is...	- The half is enough, huh?	You said one of the aunts has diabetes.	- I'll kill that animal of yours..	- But the bottle is whole!	The dog isn't a hunting dog.	- I'm on my way.	Bye my dear.	- Bye my dear.	Be back before the aunts come here.	- My aunt...	- this summer will I be with my look..	- ...the decoration of your garden.	- Stop singing!	- Oh, Mr. Tomecek?	- Good morning Miss.	- Look out!	Don't step on my plums.	- or it will end up like with the hydrangea.	And you forgot to lock the door!	- Oh!	- Are you repairing something here?	- No, no...	- Are you done with it now?	Or you start now?	- No, no..	I need to go.	- Which idiot put this here?	!	- I didn't mean to offend you, Miss.	- Go away from the plums!	- Can I help you?	- No, not you Mr. Tomecek.	- Ok, good bye.	- I am sorry.	- I am looking for an owner of a he-dog like on that photo, please leave your address here.	- I will give you reward, I will take care of the puppies.	I own a she-dog.	- Still nothing Mr. Chief?	- I am sorry Mrs. Horackova, still nothing...	- It is such a concern.	I sorta rush with it.	- I am trying my best Mrs. Horackova.
' FA' tells the story of the chase.	It' s done.
The death of Paris	THE END
The horrible will of the Goddess is done.	Reconciled by the cruel sacrifice, the Goddess restored its fertility to the parched land.	The end.
He tells her that the people are waiting for the Nile to pour out from its banks, to make the parched land fertile once again.	Pharaoh receives the representatives of the people and gives the order that there must be a general sacrifice to the Gods.	The people bring to the Goddess, Isis, offers for reconciliation.	Ramses and Amebi also bring their offering to the Goddess.	The terrible response of the Goddess is:	the life of a maiden must be sacrificed in the waters of the Nile.	Ramses, not fearing any wrong, leads Amebi to the temple where the Bride of the Nile will be chosen.	Through the priest, Amebi is dedicated as the sacrifice for the Goddess.	A few friends of Ramses suggest that he abduct his bride, Amebi from the temple.	The flight is prevented and Ramses is cursed and driven from the temple.	Amebi is prepared for the great sacrifice and is brought in celebration to the people at the banks of the Nile.	The ghastly will of the Goddess is done.	Reconciled by this cruel sacrifice, the Goddess restored the fertility back to this parched land.	The end.	Subtitles by sineintegral@KG
No, we have before us some unhappy beings.	Who could leave this room illuminated by the sagacity of this judgment.	They have recognized their faults ... and begin a new and happy life.	We must help.	The court retires to deliberate.	What might be the harshest sentence?	Banishment to Siberia, for your wife and for you.	What about the best?	A penance and, of course, the restoration of the marriage.	The jury room.	The judges's chamber.
- All right, I'll find Nikola, murderer.	- Go right now.	God, have mercy...	Godfathers blood...	But even fathers head will go if it is going to save mine.	July 24. 1817.	Radovanje woods.	- Nikola, you know what to do when it gets dark!	- But he is your godfather...	- Don't be a fool.	I have your family.	Evening.	-Thank you, my dream will be sweet.	For people, for Serbia, for freedom!	July 25. 1817.	Dawn.	- People...freedom...	Verses from "Mountain wreath" by Petar Petrovic Njegos.	To Karadjordje...	Monument to the liberators of Belgrade in 1806.	Built by Karadjordjes son Aleksandar in 1848.	Karadjordjes grandson, king Petar I reveals monument to Karadjordje in 1913.	Cast:	Cica Ilija Stanojevic	Sava Todorovic	Raja Pavlovic	Milorad Petrovic	Aleksandar Milojevic	Jevrem Bozovic	Dobrica Milutinovic	Vukosava Jurkovic	Additional cast:	THE END
How come now you said you are alone?	This is my lover!	and wife	What is your phone number?	My number?	Yes.	01 291 3279	3 months rent in advance' 3 months down payment no laundry no smoking no girls in the room?	Ha...	Ha...	Ha...	Hua...	Hei ...	Hua...	Ai ...	Ai...	Hey!	I found a floating corpse in the river!	Check out that place!	Quick' bring it there	see if there's any more discovery!	Do you know the deceased?	You can say I do or I don't...	So do you or don't you?	I think I don't!	Think carefully!	Do you know that it is a serious crime to give false testimony?	No' no!	I have dreamt about him but I think I have never seen him before in real life.	You have never seen him before but dreamt about him?	I don't know why also.	Do you want to know why?	Do you know?	No I don't!	But I can...	... definitelyhelp you investigate why.	I thought you need to investigate how he died instead?	He's already dead' why would I investigate for him?	Aren't you a cop?	When have I told you I am a cop?	Hey, move aside!	Have you called the Mata-mata?	What's that supposed to mean?	Mata-mata means the police!	Yes!	It's me who called the cops!	How did you find the corpse?	He said he saw him in his dreams!	I really dreamt about him in the river!	I am not lying!	You dreamt about it?	Don't try to fool us man!	Don't you dare try to fool the police!	Otherwise I will take you back to the Mata Chu...	That's...	The police station right?	Wei,Wei' What is the mater?	What is the mater?	I am not involved	Hey!	Calm down!	What are you doing!	What?	Don't do that!	What are you doing!	What?	Help!	Finally someone who knows Cantonese!	You come quick help us!	- Hey!	What's going on?	- What's going on?	Calm down!	Let's talk this through!	I don't know!	I was here taking photos when they suddenly hit me!	Calm down!	What are you doing!	Wait'wait.	They come from HongKong.	They don't konw our rules here, let them go	Hey, you are great!	Of course!	What photos were you taking that make the villagers so angry?	Porno?	What are you talking about!	I was just posing...	in front of the corpse	No wonder then!	It's a big taboo here to take photos of corpses!	Hang on why do you know Malay?	Why not?	I was born here!	Look' you don't know your way around here.	Here' take my card!	Wow' you are a lawyer?	Better than a lawyer!	Look at the back!	Yip Chi Yuen' Private investigator.	You are a private investigator?	Strictly speaking you can't say that I am a private investigator.	Then what are you?	I am... a mastersleuth!	A master sleuth uses his brains not his moves.	He is a master sleuth?	Ha. .	Ha...	Ha...	Come in!	Have a look around !	Wow!	It's big in here!	Quick' take a photo of me!	Alright!	Hey, this house is great!	We can really live here?	No problem!	Since we are all from Hong Kong!	- Thanks!	- Wow!	Who are you?	No' we just met near the river.	The hotels are all full and they can't find a place to stay so I took them here!	Hey!	is he swearing at us?	I don't hear anything.	- Really	- Nope.	What are you looking at?	We want to rent a room...	No!	Please help!	We really can't find a place to stay!	That's none of my business!	Look!	I am a photographer and she is a model.	I think this house gives me a lot of inspiration and I want to do some photo shooting here maybe if we give you more rent.	What did you just said I am a photographer' she is a model we think...	I am talking about the last sentence!	We give you more rent?	What's your phone number?	Oh!	6437	3 months pay in advance!	3 months down payment!	No laundry!	No smoking!	No cooking!	No sex?	Jesus' it's the same expression again.	Can you act more frightened and more real?	Hey!	I know you are taking photos at my back how can I be afraid?	Ah, I have an idea!	Wa...	Don't men like to hear women scream?	Let me scream some more for you!	Wa...	I am so scared!	How can you get changed so quickly?	I am so scared!	Don't	Don't chase me around!	Ai ...	Ai...	Ai...	Why are you so thin?	Why don't you have a heart beat?	Wa...	It is a real zombie!	Stop fooling around !	There's a real zombie!	It has no heartbeat!	Wa...	Wa...	Don't touch me!	Mister' Mister	Mister mister'	There's no need!	I don't need that!	Mister mister I said that don't need that!	Please close the window for me!	Ai ...	Ai...	Ai ...	Don't touch me!	Ai ...	Oh...	Ai ...	Have you mistaken me for someone else?
Laboratory:	L.T.C. Sound:	Studio Marignan	No actors appear in this film, just men, women and children who love the Seine.	Who's there, always there in the city and yet always coming and always going?	"It's a river," answers a child that unriddles riddles.	And then with sparkling eyes, he adds...	"And the river is called the Seine while the city is called Paris."	The Seine is like a person sometimes she runs and rushes past hurrying her step when evening falls.	Sometimes in spring she pulls up short and gazes at you like a mirror.	And if you cry she cries or smiles to cheer you up and always breaks into laughter when the summer sun appears.	"The Seine," says a labourer, a man of sorrows, of dreams of muscles and sweat.	"The Seine is a factory the Seine is work."	Up and downstream always the same turning handle fortunes in wine, coal and wheat which rise and fall with the river according to the tide of the market.	Fortunes in bottles and broken glass, treasure troves of rusted scrap of old bedsteads abandoned, reclaimed.	The Seine is a factory.	Even when the weather's fresh, it's always work.	The Seine, she's a song from the headsprings.	"She has the voice of youth", says a woman in love, smiling a woman in love from the Vert Galant.	A woman from the ÎIe des Cygnes, telling herself the same in her dreams.	"The Seine I know her as if I'd made her myself," says a tug boat pilot in a stained boiler suit streaked with oil and sun and smoke.	Risky, dangerous, tumultuous and dreamy all at once.	That's the way she is malice, caress, romance, tenderness, ...caprice, bitchiness, idleness.	If you must know, that's her real pedigree.	"The Seine is a river like any other," says a disenchanted voice of a correct and blasé man one of the first passengers of the latest sterilized tourist boats.	A river with bridges, docks and quays a river with eddies from sewers and sometimes a drowned man, if it is not a dead dog.	With anglers who never catch a thing.	A river like any other, and I'll be the first to lament her.	And the Seine hears laughter and slips away like a cat.	A river like any other any other any other.	A waterway like any other waterway.	Water from glaciers and torrents and underground lakes and melted snow and vanished clouds.	A river like the Durance or the Guadalquivir or the Amazon or Moselle, the Rhine, the Thames or the Nile.	A river like the River Love like the River Love, sings the broadening Seine and at night the Milky Way accompanies its tender golden murmur and also the railway with its usual muffled din.	"A river like the River Love...	"Do you hear the beauty, the cooing?" says a lord of the barges, a summer visitor on the Rapee quay.	The River Love you speak as if I'm indifferent.	It isn't a river, the Seine it's love in person.	It's my river.	My little daybreak, my little trip round the world my life's holidays.	The Louvre, Tuileries, Eiffel and Pointue Towers and Notre Dame, Obelisk, Gare de Lyon, Austerlitz they are my châteaux of the Loire.	The Seine, it's my Rivièra and me, I'm its true tourist and when it runs cold and naked, howling complaints against strangers you have to be short on memory to call it distress, misery or despair but fairy tales and nightmares should not be confused.	And then when below the Pont Neuf the dying day's wind blows out my candle when I withdraw from the business of life when I'm finally at ease in the grand palace of those at rest at Bagneux at Père Lachaise, I shall smile and say to myself:	There once was the Seine once there once was love there once was misfortune and another time forgetfulness.	There once was the Seine and once there was life.	The End
What do you make of it.	I'm not taking any chances.	Sound the red alert!	Vector 360 climb to Angels 3, bogey 90 miles.	Red leader to Control.	Nothing here.	Give us a new Vector.	Bogey has disappeared, Return to home plate.	Jerry!	Sugar Fly to Red Eagle One...	Come in Red Eagle One.	Sugar Fly to Red Eagle One.	Come in Red Eagle One.	Hello Sugar Fly, this is Red Eagle One, go ahead.	Red Eagle One, we're over the wreckage of the C47.	They found it Colonel!	Get his position.	Yes sir.	Alert Lieutenant Pizar.	Yes sir.	Colonel!	Looks just like the weather shack.	Yeah.	Where are they?	Where are the bodies?	Easy.	Look out!	What in the world is...	What is it?	I don't know.	Looks like it had been broken off of something.	That point's as sharp as a needle.	I give up.	You got me.	Well where do we go from here?	We'll have to let CONAD worry about that.	This is CONAD.	The Continental Air Defense Command, at Colorado Springs.	The focal point of the super sonic shield that guards the North American Continent.	A shield that could mean the difference between life and death  for millions of Americans.	These are Hot phones!	Using them it takes only 15 seconds, to talk to Alaska, 10 seconds to alert Newfoundland,	5 seconds to contact you!	3 seconds to reach the Pentagon Command Post.	General Ford Speaking...	Yes.	I see.	Good, I'll take a plane right out.	The Arctic command has delivered the package.	Good afternoon gentlemen.	I'm General Ford.	Oh No, no, Please, sit down.	Gentlemen...	I realize that the Air Force hasn't given you much time in which to make your tests..	... and a definitive job may have been out of the question in the short time you've had, but the Department of Defense hopes that  during these two days of concentrated efforts, you've come to some conclusion  about this.	Professor Gunther I believe you are in charge.	All of us are agreed to accept one thing  this appendage comes from some living creature.	... but as to what creature, it was once a part of, we  we are completely in the dark.	Our mathamist, Dr. Arnold Burton, has been unable to identify this object.	Professor Harvy Pierce is certain from his exploration  that the "hook", cannot belong to the neurological system.	Well you seem to know more about what it isn't than what it is.	That is correct, sir.	Gentlemen let's be logical.	Now you tell me that this, "hook"  comes from something that's alive.	alright.	But it wasn't a part of the cargo  and it wasn't in the plane when it took off, so it must have come aboard, after the crash.	Right?	That sounds logical...	Now what was it that came aboard?	It shouldn't be so difficult.	You know the animal life of the Arctic.	We have asked ourselves that, General.	You're not suggesting that it comes from some creature  at present, unknown?	It's a possibility we suggest you investigate, sir.	How?	We recommend that you ask Dr. Nedrick Jackson of  the museum of Natural History here in Washington, to look into this.	He's their chief Paleontologist and the countries leading authority on the Ali gasi and Carnivori	You've lost me professor.	He deals with life of past geological periods... as shown by the fossil remains of, plants and animals.	He has been able to re-construct prehistoric creatures with, no more to start with then  a hand full of bones.	"Departamento de Paleontología" Dr. Jackson.	Curator.	Hi Marge.	Hi.	What have you got there?	A kid in my junior science group made it.	Even added an extra vertebrae as though it doesn't have enough already.	Here, want to count them?	Listen, if I'm ever to get next months issue of the magazine out  we better start working.	I've got a feature.	Life parades through the ages.	Showing the progression of prehistoric creatures  from the jelly fish, to the dinosaur, to primitive man.	Sounds alright.	... and I'm going to include the pictures we took on your last field trip.	That's even better.	Oh, excuse me.	Jackson talking.	The Pentagon?	Sure I'll wait.	What do you know maybe they want to call me back in the service.	This is Dr. Jackson.	General Ford?	Yes.	Yes.	I see General.	Of course sir I'll be right over.	Everything alright?	... course.	It isn't every day the Pentagon calls you.	You're very nosy.	Okay be mysterious.
If I was boss we wouldn't do it.	You ain't boss!	?	So I bought myself a shovel and I bought myself a pick	?	And I laid a little track along the bullfrog crick	?	Then I built a locomotive out of 20 empty cans	?	And I tooted on the whistle and the darned thing ran	?	Oh, you can't get far without a railroad	?	You can't get far without a railroad	?	Something's gotta take you there and gotta bring you back	?	You can't go any distance in a buggy or a hack?	(Train whistle)	Throw some ropes around them timbers.	We'll pull it down.	Torgenson!	- OK, John.	- Hurry it up, Jubilee!	- Boy, they're pushing her fast today.	- Yeah!	Maybe they heard I needed a quick ten thousand.	- That water tower your idea?	- What's wrong with it?	Any self-respecting Injun could walk away with it.	Funny man!	He knows everything about everything.	Let's get down and lock the barn door.	- (Neighing)	- We've stopped!	Whitey's making his hit!	- McLaine sold us out!	- No, Ben.	They didn't learn it from Grant.	Leary!	- A hold-up!	- They did it again!	Stop your moaning and hold on to your hat!	They won't stop old Tommy Shannon with a tank full of water.	That's no way to treat railroad property, Mr Shannon.	Take your hand off the throttle and reach for the brake!	All right.	Sit down and behave!	Come over here.	Open the safe!	- Ha!	- Move in!	Same as last time!	- We thought you were lost or drunk.	- There ain't nothing in there.	(Man) Jubilee!	How are you making out?	Try to talk your way out of this!	- I'm sorry I missed out with Renner.	- Never mind.	Where's the money?	- It's not in the safe.	- Then where is it?	It could be going to Junction City with Jeff's men.	That's not true.	Renner told us Jeff wouldn't carry the payroll!	That's a help.	Least we know who didn't carry it.	Funny man!	When you get through laughing, see what's in that red car.	Sure.	Glad to.	As soon as I pick up my horse.	He's worth more than anything I'm gonna find on this train.	Get those pilgrims out.	Maybe one of them is carrying it.	Hit the other cars!	See if you can find it.	Outside!	All of you!	Is this what you wanted to tell me?	Have a look inside, Latigo!	If that's McLaine...	No, Ben.	Put it away.	You may as well be comfortable.	- Be my guest.	- Gladly.	Do you mind if I ask the name of my host?	No, I don't mind.	Would the payroll be in there?	No.	Why not take a look, just to be sure?	Boy, is this stuff mellow.	Bottled in bond too.	- I forgot.	Ladies is always first.	- Thank you, no.	See for yourself.	Hello, Joey.	What are you doing here?	Getting robbed!	Don't bother.	None of them's got more than two dollars.	Whitey!	There ain't no payroll in there.	How come you missed out?	- I had a little trouble.	- Now, ain't that too bad?	- Maybe I ought to give you a little more.	- Whitey!	Kimball's back there with his wife.	(Laughs)	You just got lucky!	Put them back in the car!	(Concho) Get aboard!	Go on.	Good little boys don't run away.	This time you'll learn!	- Where's the payroll?	- The man says he doesn't know.	I can help him remember.	Take her outside.	Take her outside yourself.	I'm afraid of women.	They scream and scratch, and sometimes step on your toes.	Don't say no to me.	Not when I got a gun in my hand.	I won't.	Unless I'm holding one too.	- Outside.	- If you want the payroll...	You'll have to wait for the next work train.	We decided not to send it through on this one.	Oh?	I don't mind waiting.	I'll be at Pay Load.	You can bring it to me.	Then I'll take 12 hours' start, you get your wife back.	See what happens when you don't carry your brains in your feet?	I ought to make you walk.	Jubilee, lead them out.	Step up with Latigo.	(Concho) What about Joey?	You gonna leave him here?	He'll ride with me.	Or would you like to?	Settle down.	We're getting $10,000 for the lady, remember?	Which one do I ride with?	(Laughs) Which one do you think?	Take her to the end of track, Mr Shannon!	(Train whistle)	Here's a stirrup.	Give you a lift?	I'll take that box.	Don't crowd the cantle.	You'll ride easier.	Whoa, mules!	Must have got tired of making the climb and started home.	- Come on, boy!	- Just a minute.	There's a mining town near here.	It used to be called Pay Load.	It's still called Pay Load but nobody lives there.	- It's over beyond that far hill.	- Which hill?	- You see the first hill?
Don't start that too.	That there sorrel is the only horse what come in.	That there sorrel is the horse I want.	He belongs to my friend Grant McLaine.	McLaine?	That's who it is.	I knew him as a troubleshooter in Santa Fe before he went bad.	- He didn't go bad.	- What'll you do with his horse?	- Ride him!	I'll change, you saddle him.	- All right.	Hey, Pilgrim!	Come here!	Don't go getting your liver all upset.	- Once you miss 'em, they stay missed.	- It's none of your business.	- Could be.	You wanting to get on that car?	- If I am?	- I can take you to where it's going.	- On one of these?	They'll get you to end of track before the train does.	- That's ridiculous.	- $100 aging yours I'm right.	- You've got a bet.	- And you got stuck.	Here.	I'll let you ride Flap Ears.	- You can smoke inside, mister.	- I can smoke where I want.	You can burn too if it pleases you but it'll still cost you four bits.	- For what?	- Traveling first-class.	Otherwise ride the flats.	- You play that?	- Yeah, I play it.	- When?	- When?	Whenever somebody throws a dime in my hat.	- I ain't got a dime.	- This one's on me.	- Been up here before?	- Part way.	- What takes you to end of track?	- A job.	Figured I'd get one at Junction City.	They told me the foremen do the hiring.	You're a little on the light side for swinging a sledge.	- I can carry water.	- Yeah, you can carry water.	- Very important job.	- (Man) Hey!	- What are you doing here?	- He's with me, Pick.	- Where did you get him?	- Somebody threw him away.	Don't you throw him away.	He'll get lost in the mountains.	Who tells the men who build railroads how to get through the mountains?	- The river.	- Huh?	They just follow the river.	- Who told you that?	- I guess my dad was the first.	He had a little song about it.	Followtheriver	Theriverknowsthe way	Heartscango astray	Ithappenseveryday	Followtheriver	Whereveryoumaybe	Followtheriverbacktome	Wouldn't you wanna be knowing about Concho?	- Who's Concho?	- The man you roped.	Do you wanna know?	Not unless you wanna tell me.	I ought to tell you.	He's fast with a gun.	Only know two men who are faster.	Which two men would they be?	Whitey Harbin for one.	I run away from Whitey.	That's why Concho was after me.	You're one of Whitey's men?	No.	I was in Montrose.	Whitey and his bunch were robbing a bank.	I was just in the road watching.	Whitey was all for killing me but the other fellow wouldn't let him.	He swung me up into the saddle and said,	"You ain't killing a kid.	Not while I ride with you."	- Whitey, he backed down.	- Cos the fella's faster with a gun?	Like lightning.	This other fella, does he have a name?	He's got a name.	The Utica Kid.	I'd have stayed with the bunch if he was boss.	- But he's not?	- Not yet.	Always he's shoving pins into Whitey, laughing at him, driving him crazy.	Even crazier than he is!	Someday Whitey will crack and he'll lose.	Is this the fresh air you were talking about?	How come them fellas can ride inside?	Well, it's the old story of good and evil.	If you spend all your money on whiskey, you have none left for a ticket.	Don't drink.	Then you'd have six bits when you need it.	That's very true.	Tell you what, maybe I have six bits.	Yeah.	What do you say we go in and spend it?	Come on.	Guess I wasn't tough enough to follow the river that way.	Sometimes it isn't easy traveling upstream.	- That will be a dollar.	- That'll be six bits.	I'm the adult.	Here.	Hold on to that.	- Don't worry about Concho.	- You would if...	Oh, no, come on.	Sit down.	We can both worry together if you want to tell me about it.	- It's nothing.	- And if it was, you'd rather not say.	All right.	I broke with Whitey.	Doesn't mean I have to talk.	No, you don't have to talk.	I even broke with the Utica Kid.	- Hi, Utica.	- Put him away, Howdy.	Sure.	Come on.	It's a pretty good rig.	Too good for the guy that owned it.	Remember that draw you taught me?	It worked.	He went down with his gun in the leather.	- And now you're an "in case" man.	- In case?	Yeah.	In case you miss six times with one, you draw the other.	- If you have time.	- I'll have time.	Call it.	Draw!	You better learn to draw that one before you fool around with the other.	About three inches high, Whitey.	You better take another look at that skull.	Next time it could be yours.
- What colour horse your man riding?	- How should I know?	It's extremely important that I see him.	They've cut in Mr Kimball's car.	Barley!	A man told you to put his horse up...	Don't start that too.	That there sorrel is the only horse what come in.	That there sorrel is the horse I want.	He belongs to my friend Grant McLaine.	McLaine?	That's who it is.	I knew him as a troubleshooter in Santa Fe before he went bad.	- He didn't go bad.	- What'll you do with his horse?	- Ride him!	I'll change, you saddle him.	- All right.	(Train chugging)	(Train whistle)	Hey, Pilgrim!	Come here!	Don't go getting your liver all upset.	- Once you miss 'em, they stay missed.	- It's none of your business.	- Could be.	You wanting to get on that car?	- If I am?	- I can take you to where it's going.	- On one of these?	They'll get you to end of track before the train does.	- That's ridiculous.	- $100 aging yours I'm right.	- You've got a bet.	- And you got stuck.	Here.	I'll let you ride Flap Ears.	- You can smoke inside, mister.	- I can smoke where I want.	You can burn too if it pleases you but it'll still cost you four bits.	- For what?	- Travelling first-class.	Otherwise ride the flats.	(Discordant notes)	- You play that?	- Yeah, I play it.	- When?	- When?	Whenever somebody throws a dime in my hat.	- I ain't got a dime.	- This one's on me.	(?	Folk tune)	- Been up here before?	- Part way.	- What takes you to end of track?	- A job.	Figured I'd get one at Junction City.	They told me the foremen do the hiring.	You're a little small for swinging a sledge.	- I can carry water.	- Yeah, you can carry water.	- Very important job.	- (Man) Hey!	- What are you doing here?	- He's with me, Pick.	- Where did you get him?	- Somebody threw him away.	Don't you throw him away.	He'll get lost in the mountains.	Who tells the men who build railroads how to get through the mountains?	- The river.	- Huh?	They just follow the river.	- Who told you that?	- I guess my dad was the first.	He had a little song about it.	?	Follow the river	?	The river knows the way	?	Hearts can go astray	?	It happens every day	?	Follow the river	?	Wherever you may be	?	Follow the river back to me?	Wouldn't you wanna be knowing about Concho?	- Who's Concho?	- The man you roped.	Do you wanna know?	Not unless you wanna tell me.	I ought to tell you.	He's fast with a gun.	Only know two men who are faster.	Which two men would they be?	Whitey Harbin for one.	I run away from Whitey.	That's why Concho was after me.	You're one of Whitey's men?	No.	I was in Montrose.	Whitey and his bunch were robbing a bank.	I was just in the road watching.	Whitey was all for killing me but the other fellow wouldn't let him.	He swung me up into the saddle and said,	"You ain't killing a kid.	Not while I ride with you."	- Whitey, he backed down.	- Cos the fella's faster with a gun?	Like lightning.	This other fella, does he have a name?	He's got a name.	The Utica Kid.	I'd have stayed with the bunch if he was boss.	- But he's not?	- Not yet.	Always he's shoving pins into Whitey, laughing at him, driving him crazy.	Even crazier than he is!	Someday Whitey will crack and he'll lose.	(Train whistle)	Is this the fresh air you were talking about?	How come them fellas can ride inside?	Well, it's the old story of good and evil.	If you spend all your money on whiskey, you have none left for a ticket.	Don't drink.	Then you'd have six bits when you need it.	That's very true.	Tell you what, maybe I have six bits.	Yeah.	What do you say we go in and spend it?	Come on.	Guess I wasn't tough enough to follow the river that way.	Sometimes it isn't easy travelling upstream.	- That will be a dollar.	- That'll be six bits.	I'm the adult.	Here.	Hold on to that.	- Don't worry about Concho.	- You would if...	Oh, no, come on.	Sit down.	We can both worry together if you want to tell me about it.	- It's nothing.	- And if it was, you'd rather not say.	All right.	I broke with Whitey.	Doesn't mean I have to talk.	No, you don't have to talk.	I even broke with the Utica Kid.	- Hi, Utica.	- Put him away, Howdy.	Sure.	Come on.	It's a pretty good rig.	Too good for the guy that owned it.	Remember that draw you taught me?	It worked.	He went down with his gun in the leather.	- And now you're an "in case" man.	- In case?	Yeah.
Here's your money.	Pay 'em off, Tim.	Thank you, Grant.	Looks like you won yourself a job.	Mine.	No, it won't fit.	Not nearly as well as your coat.	Want your old job back?	Thanks.	All right, Joey.	Get a bucket and start carrying water.	We're at end of track.	Now go on.	# Sometimes I feel like I could jump over the moon	# And tell the sky above	# Does it matter how full the moon	# When you've an empty heart	# Follow the river	# Wherever you may be	# Follow the river back to me
- What are we stopping for?	- We're going to the mill, the shod way.	Get down to the mill!	Come on!	Take cover!	Here.	There's a mine shaft at the end of these cables.	It runs clear through the mountains.	On the other side, about half a mile, is the rail road!	It's two hours to the end of track.	I have to send you out one at a time.	Come on, Verna.	- Tell Ben he'll get his payroll somehow.	- I'll tell him more than that.	You'll get that money even if you had to kill your own brother?	The next ore bucket that comes down, pull it around and jump in.	I'll cover for you.	It's clear, Charlie.	Get out!	See if you can reach him from over there.	He can't stand them off, not alone.	You figuring to help?	Grant!	Look out!	He's real good.	Only one better gun in Colorado.	Charlie!	Get over here!	- I thought I told you to get out.	- I'm staying right here.	All right.	Now you get back inside and I'll cover for you.	Thanks, Charlie.	Lee, not the kid!	You take care of the kid.	I'll see if I can keep them pinned down.	Would you mind if I play big brother just this one time?	- Shoots high.	- You or the gun?	- Joey all right?	- He's all right.	That makes you a winner.	Go ahead and make a sucker out of the kid.	Tell him all about good and evil.	Put him to work on the rail road.	Things get tough, he can always play the accordion for nickels and dimes.	Sounds like old times, Lee.	Welcome home.	Don't give me that big brother grin.	- Up there!	- Get him!	I count mine.	There's one left.	He hit you hard, Lee.	Not half as hard as you did with that Bullfrog Line.	That was Dad's favourite tune and you know it.	I know it.	You and your stinking accordion!	Charlie.	Charlie?	You and Joey get the horses.	What...?	I'll take care of my brother.	Here's your money.	Pay 'em off, Tim.	Thank you, Grant.	Looks like you won yourself a job.	Mine.	No, it won't fit.	Not nearly as well as your coat.	Want your old job back?	Thanks.	All right, Joey.	Get a bucket and start carrying water.	We're at end of track.	Now go on.	♪ Sometimes I feel like ♪	♪ could jump over the moon ♪	♪ And tell the sky above ♪	♪ Does it matter how full the moon ♪	♪ When you've an empty head ♪	♪ Follow the river ♪	♪ Wherever you may be ♪	♪ Follow the river back to me ♪	♪ Follow the river back to me ♪
- What do you want of me?	PETER:	Give up.	Surrender.	Bring in your people.	Surrender?	Peace.	On what terms?	Justice.	Understanding.	If you stop fighting, others will do likewise.	You must have faith.	You must try.	We have tried before.	Then try again.	And again and again and again.	Do you not love anyone?	Your wife?	Children who believe in you?	You know of my child?	No.	A man-child?	Yes.	He will find a better world than you and I.	I sometimes dream of when we were children, you and I.	- Peter?	- Yeah.	I've not said that name in many years.	How goes it with your father?	As well as age will allow.	He was a good man.	He's a friend of my father.	Yes.	And Memsahib Elizabeth?	She is with child.	- Peter?	- Yes.	I did not hurt her.	I did not hurt her or her children.	It was not my hands that struck them.	I believe you.	What's happened to us?	When did this hatred begin?	Before we were born, I think.	I will talk with my people.	I will tell them that I trust you.	But they must decide for themselves.	This will take time.	Four days hence, you will have your answer.	If they agree we will come to the meadow by the hidden spring.	- You know of it?	- Yes.	- You will be there?	- Yes.	Until then.	Kimani.	Grandpa.	HENRY:	Peter.	- So you pulled it off.	- Yes.	- I wanna hear about it.	You like a drink?	- No, thank you, later.	Holly?	Holly?	Holly is with Elizabeth in Nairobi.	Oh...	- You see, we had another raid here.	- I know.	I asked her to go.	- Don't blame her, son.	She was...	- Thanks, Papa.	What we do is stupid.	To surrender betrays everything we have done.	Our children need food, our sick need medicine.	All we need is courage.	Let me talk to them.	You cannot talk to a starving people.	Their belly have no ears.	And if they shoot us down?	No, I have the word of my friend.	Your friend is a white man.	He hates us.	It is your own hatred that you see in others.	PETER:	Holly.	Sister Williams.	I called at your flat.	You shouldn't go into Elizabeth's right now.	Anything wrong?	No, she's just a little overdue, that's all.	There's nothing to be alarmed about.	You're looking...	You're looking thinner.	You don't look so bad yourself.	Was it very bad?	Some days are good, some bad.	- No, they'll see us.	- Let them.	Do you have to go back?	Tonight.	Oh, I wish I could go with you.	We'll go away soon in that honeymoon we never had.	We don't have to go away to be on a honeymoon.	But I thought you wanted to...	To run away?	Yeah.	HOLLY:	Just when was that?	Let's see, about a month ago?	At least a hundred years.	I want to go home to our home.	With Mount Kenya and God in the garden.	The war may not be over for a long time.	I used to blame the war for everything, didn't I?	Somebody else's war is always to blame.	No, I was to blame.	When you grow up, you realize you can't run away from the world.	You just gotta live in it.	You're a big girl now.	I'm beginning to understand about that other woman too.	- What other woman?	- Africa.	Oh.	She's not the least bit jealous.	And neither am I.	Excuse me.	Your boy, Lathela, he says you have to start off for somewhere or other.	PETER:	Thank you.	See you soon.	Please, God, let it be soon.	Can't you make this thing go faster?	We've got to get there by daylight.	Why?	It's almost impossible.	- But if Kimani shows...	- He set no hour.	He'll wait for us.	Yes, but will Joe Matson wait?	- Matson?	- He got wind of it somehow.	You should have stopped him.	I only heard about him myself about an hour ago.	How do you keep a thing like this secret?	How do you keep Matson off the trigger?	This won't be any ceasefire, it'll be cold-blooded murder.	[PANTING]	[SLAP  BABY CRYING]	Doctor?	Yes?	Is there any marks?	Just the mark of a man.	Look at this place.	It's a perfect trap.	What are we supposed to do?	Wait around till they show up?	MATSON:	We'd be caught in the open.	It's a perfect trap, I don't wanna get caught.	- If they show, it'll be to surrender.	- How do you know?	But they gave their word.	I'm taking cover.	You know how Joe is, always suspicious.	I know how Mau Mau is too.	Where is your friend?	You there, all of you, put down your guns.	[SCREAMING]	Wait.	Please.	[BABY CRYING]	[KIMANI SCREAMS]	[SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]	Yeah, we lost him all right.	Come on.	[BABY MOANING  CRYING]	- When we find Kimani, will you kill him?
Peter, why do you have to go?	We've been over this a dozen times.	I have to go, that's all.	Yes, but there's the army...	The army is inexperienced in the mountain and the bush country.	- How long will you be away?	- I don't know.	What am I supposed to do while you're gone?	What the rest of the women are doing, help keep the place going.	Peter.	It wasn't very much of a honeymoon for you, was it?	Are you very afraid?	No, not of them.	Only for us.	It's us I'm afraid for, what will happen to us.	Mau Mau working underground everywhere.	Maybe right here in this room, for all we know.	Now, the government wants information.	Who's forging the ammunition permits?	Who's supplying the guns?	Who's giving the oaths?	So it's prisoners we're after.	It's your job to track them down.	I say kill them, make it open warfare, bomb them out.	Kill whom, all 6 million Africans in Kenya?	We're only 40,000.	That makes the odds about 150-to-1.	That's not the point.	We're not at war with the Kikuyu nation.	We're fighting Mau Mau.	For every one of us, they've killed a hundred Kikuyus.	- Loyal Kikuyus.	- They don't know what loyalty means.	Now, listen, man.	They're trying to drive us out.	What are we to do?	Pack up because their grandfathers were here first?	I was born here too.	This is my country.	Killing's no answer.	We gotta give the African a chance...	Black man's had Africa for years.	It'd be a jungle if we hadn't moved in.	It's not a question of black or white.	That's exactly what it is.	Black or white.	You'll follow orders or keep out of this.	Well?	All right.	I'll try it your way for a while.	No smoking.	And no fires for cooking.	Whiskey?	Jeff.	Talk to me, Papa.	I don't know what to say.	Anything, Papa.	Anything at all.	This off-season rain it should do a lot of good.	You're doing a big job, child.	Like my Caroline, a long time ago when the country was new.	She was delicate, but strong, like you.	She helped to make the land and hold it.	Like you.	No, Papa, not like me.	I'm weak.	I'm weak and I'm afraid and I'm lonely.	Papa.	Who said you could get out of bed?	I want to go to Nairobi to see the doctor.	Is it your arm again?	I know you'll think I'm mad but I'm going to have another baby.	You see, if there's any chance of it being born...	Well, I mean, after losing so much blood and...	And I want this baby, Papa.	More than I've ever wanted anything.	It'd be a little bit more of Jeff and...	Holly, will you take me in to the doctor in the morning?	Hey, you, listen carefully.	You are surrounded by police.	Lay down your guns.	Listen carefully.	Lay down your guns.	You are surrounded by police.	All right.	Waithaka, do you know any of these people?	- Next.	- A good farmer, no Mau Mau.	- No?	- No, bwana.	You see?	Njogu, soldier of god.	How long were you in the mountains?	One year.	Do not hurt me, bwana.	Who gave you the oath?	I do not know.	If you lie to me again, I'll kill you.	Now who was it?	Who made you swear to the oath?	Waithaka.	Help me.	Help me.	Waithaka.	- Help me.	- The woman lies.	I never saw her before, never.	I swear.	By my father, I swear.	Here's one of your loyal Kikuyus.	All right.	We'll start again.	- You gave the oath to the girl?	- No.	- She knew your name.	How?	- She's the wife of my brother.	- Who gave you the oath?	- It was dark and raining, I could not see.	How do you Mau Mau do it?	Since when do we use torture?	The Mau Mau do it.	They love it.	- You might even grow to love it yourself.	- I don't like it any more than you do.	But I don't like what happened to Matson's wife.	Or your family.	Or any families to come.	We're not such a big jump away from being savages ourselves, are we?	Please.	Please let me point him out from here.	Please let me.	This is the man.	- Your name.	- Njogu.	Is he the one?	Is he the oath-giver?	You said his name was Njogu.	You said he was here.	He spoke truly.	I gave the oath to him, to all of them.	They know nothing.	And from me, you will get nothing.	Do not let me stay...	Do not let me stay here.	You promised, bwana.	You promised, you promised, you promised.	Who is it?	Uncle Peter.	Excuse my appearance.	I need a drink.	- I beg your pardon.	- Let me help you, son.	That's right.	Absolutely right.	You're gonna help us all.	I need your help.	Government needs help.	Everybody needs help.
How do you call yourself?	Kimani wa Karanja.	We are beggars and slaves in our own land.	The British allow us in their homes and hotels, yes.	But how?	As servants.	We are millions, they are a handful.	We are strong, they are weak.	How then are they the masters and we the slaves?	Is it white magic?	Is it god's will?	No.	They have the guns.	We too shall have guns.	Are we ready for this?	The whole colored world burns with the fever of revolt with the fire for freedom.	Do any of you have any questions?	Is there a doubt in your hearts?	What troubles you?	Kimani.	His name is Kimani wa Karanja.	For five years, he has been in the mountains with us.	He is ready for leadership.	He is very strong and loyal.	Strong men have betrayed us before.	- You have a question, Kimani?	KIMANl:	Yes, sir.	- This talk of guns.	Yes?	Is this the only way we can get freedom?	Yes.	- By the spilling of blood?	- Yes.	We will never drive the British out with words.	And not with doubts and not with friendship.	It can only be done with guns.	The white man did not take this land with guns.	He bought this land.	- This is truth.	- Mm-hm.	And I must follow where the truth leads me.	You were educated in white missionary schools?	Yes, sir.	Long, long ago, to whom did the land belong?	- The people.	- Yes.	Not one person, but the entire clan.	And therefore only the clan can sell the land correct?	- Yes, sir.	No man of any other tribe can buy our land unless he becomes, in our religion, a Kikuyu.	Yes, sir.	And have the British ever become Kikuyus?	Or have you become one of the British?	Your father was a friend of the British.	But your father died in their prison.	There is only one way to drive out the British.	By terror and death.	Everyone must either be for us or against us.	Those who be with us, stand.	Good.	We will need a symbol, a sign, a name.	Here it is.	Mau Mau.	Mau Mau.	Use it, live by it, die for it.	Mau Mau is the machinery that will carry us to freedom and independence.	Mau Mau.	Mau Mau.	I swear to kill an Englishman or may this oath kill me and my family.	I swear to kill an Englishman or may this oath kill me and my family.	- They make a nice couple, don't they?	- Mm.	She's got good lines for breeding too.	Look.	Mount Kenya.	Lathela, wait here.	No wonder the African believes that God lives on Mount Kenya.	If I were God, that's where I'd like to live.	I feel I'm really home now.	I love you, Peter.	I always have.	I suppose I always will.	I like the feel of you.	I wish...	Yes?	I wish it could always be like this moment.	Safe and warm and peaceful.	Always like this.	Home is always like this.	Why did your husband run away?	Did he steal?	Did he do something bad?	Where did he go?	Why didn't you go with him?	- I was afraid.	- Afraid?	Afraid of what?	Hello, my darling.	Hello, my darling.	What did you bring?	Hello.	You didn't forget my rifle?	Yes, it's right here.	Henry.	Bring the children in.	Bring them in.	What do you think?	What's it mean?	I don't know.	Two Kyukes disappear from my place.	Jasper, his headman reports one gone from his farm, rifle missing too.	One gone from your place.	Why?	You saw his wife.	She's afraid.	Why?	What of?	Come in.	According to Kikuyu custom we come to speak for Peter McKenzie, bachelor to Holly Keith, spinster.	- This shy Kikuyu maiden is grateful.	- She doesn't look very shy to me.	How many goats will be paid for me?	Three or four ought to be quite enough, don't you think?	Oh, I'd say 20 or 30 at least.	Why don't you throw yourself in and make it 31 goats?	And why has Peter wa Henry chosen me?	He needs someone to chop firewood and dig potatoes.	He needs someone to keep his bed warm.	- He promises not to beat you often.	- Unless it's absolutely necessary.	- He also expects a child every year.	- All of them his.	- A very narrow attitude.	- We shall also have to shave your head.	Do you accept my son?	If you do, we'll drink to the marriage bargain.	If you don't, I shall have to pour this on the ground.	And waste all that precious gin?	Thank you for becoming one of our family.	You will swear a new blood oath.	When it is done, you will be part of the new army:	Mau Mau.	He who refuses to take the oath he dies.	He who breaks the oath he dies.	Cut off the sheep's head.	Fill this calabash with its blood.
To give you an easy road.	The endless circles.	Earth.	Hold it to your belly.	That the land may feed us and not the foreigners.	Hold up your arm.	So that your blood will mix.	Now swallow the oath seven times.	Repeat after me as you pass through the arch.	If I sell land to any foreigners, may this oath kill me.	If I sell land to any foreigners, may this oath kill me.	- I will steal guns.	- I will steal guns.	I will never be a Christian.	I will never be a Christian.	I will drive out all Europeans or kill them.	I will drive out all Europeans or kill them.	NJOGU:	It is done.	They've all sworn.	I feel unclean.	I will not let Wanjiru take this oath.	It is not necessary.	She is loyal.	To swallow the oath was hard enough, but the rest of it...	The nameless filth, the shame.	And in front of the others.	Why was it necessary?	Why?	To bind us together forever.	Now they will do anything.	Killing of mother, father, son will be as nothing to them.	They will feel strong with power and purpose.	- Who gave you the oath?	- No one.	You never took it?	I am too old to change.	I am ready to give up my life, but I cannot give up my faith.	It is too deep, too strong.	In life and in death I will always believe in the god of my father the god who lives on Mount Kenya.	- So do I, in spite of the oath.	Your daughter carries my child.	Now, I wish to marry her before the child is born.	I consider you married.	I will gather cooking stones with my wife as my father before me gathered cooking stones with my mother.	Like you, I cannot tear out what is in my heart.	Do it quickly, then.	We need rest.	Tomorrow is the appointed day of the long knives.	Our first attack should be on the McKenzie shamba.	- Why there?	- Why not?	Look, that was my home, my friends.	A great leader has no friends, only a cause.	- You doubt my loyalty?	- I only ask you to prove it.	Let your panga come back as red as mine.	[CAMERA WINDING]	[BABOONS HOWLING  GRUNTING]	[HOLLY CHUCKLES]	Thank you for a lovely day.	Lovely wedding day.	- No more anxiety?	- Mm-mm.	- You know why?	- Why?	Because everything's so full of life.	All the animals, the earth and even the air smells of life.	We've done nothing to spoil it.	Someday all this will be farm country.	What will happen to White Hunter McKenzie, then?	Four years ago, our crops were hit by locusts.	Wiped out.	Papa put all his savings into cattle.	The next year, rinderpest.	What cattle didn't die had to be killed.	Papa got a loan from the bank.	So part of the time, I take rich clients on safari.	For the money.	To pay back the loan.	So the land's good to us this year and the crops hold up, no locusts, no rinderpests I'll be back where I really belong.	On the farm.	You know, that's the most wonderful wedding present you could ever give me.	- Are you as happy as I am?	- I'm a very lucky man.	I have the two women I love most in the world.	- Who's the other one?	- Africa.	There are some things I can do for you that Africa can't.	What is it?	I don't know.	Something strange.	Well, I didn't hear anything.	I'm not certain.	It was something.	Just a feeling, I guess.	[HORN HONKS]	I wonder what's happened to the porch light.	Probably the fuse again.	I'll have a look at it.	JEFF:	Hey, what the...?	Ugh!	KIMANl:	Remember me?	Kimani.	- What do you want?	- I've come home.	[INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE]	[CRASHING  WHISTLE BLOWING]	ELIZABETH:	Jeff!	KIMANl:	No.	[MOUTHS] Kimani.	MAN [OVER RADIO]:	Jeff Newton and two of his children dead.	His wife, Elizabeth, in critical condition.	On the open highway to Nanyuki in broad daylight  Joe Matson and Mrs. Matson were ambushed while motoring.	Mrs. Matson was killed by machine-gun bullets.	Chief Waruhiu, leader of the anti-Mau Mau movement  was murdered at Kiambu.	MEYLl:	Yes, bwana.	SUPERINTENDENT:	Were you in your hut last night?	MEYLl:	Yes.	SUPERINTENDENT:	It's lucky your father and the one boy were out visiting.	Where is Jeff and the kids?	SUPERINTENDENT:	What's your name?	MEYLl:	Meyli.	SUPERINTENDENT:	Who was with you?	MEYLl:	My husband and my children.	And the mother of my husband.	SUPERINTENDENT:	Did you ever attend any Mau Mau meetings?	MEYLl:	No, bwana.	SUPERINTENDENT:	Next, please.	[GASPS]	Mrs. McKenzie, what type blood are you?	- Type O.	- Come along, please.	Hurry.	Anybody else here with type O blood?
Thy name!	I pulled a receipt storage.	Receipt, which I hid here under the table!	And that you come back to me!	Look, Bastia,	Your pukalki can not force me to give what I did not take.	Do not give you in the face with it, too, will be able to make not.	A and so will happen, if you would not uber群h.	Then I'm glad.	Do not be offended, I was joking.	- Never mind.	But you're wrong, kidding...	Such things.	Yes.	It's like a cigarette butt can start a fire!	Perhaps it would suit the owner.	Yes, but only if he paid the premiums.	Gina!	Come here.	What's the matter?	- My receipt of storage!	- So what?	I pulled it!	- Richoni?	- No, definitely not.	Then who?	We've got no thieves.	What are you talking about ?	!	In addition to the receipt, I stole all the money out of a suitcase.	And so - no thieves!	What a fool!	This morning I took out a shirt out of the suitcase.	And the money was there still.	So it happened recently?	What does it change?	All!	If you hurry, you still catch my thief at Gare du Nord!	Do you have money?	I do not.	Maybe you have Marcella?	You carry nonsense.	Perhaps Cinco?	He told me to pay for a few weeks.	You should in any run.	I'll come to you first train.	Wait for me at the hotel "Piccardi," you know?	- Yes OK.	Fernand!	Yes?	If you return the money, we will go to Italy.	If you deceive me, I shall hand you to the police.	You clear favorite?	You are not as good as I thought, Gina.	Do not "is not so good." Not such a fool.	Okay, go.	If tonight everything goes well,	We will be able to pay taxes, for the light, and we can go tomorrow.	- To pay all the salary?	- If all pay, we will not go away.	I do not need anything Dario, fortunately.	He's an artist.	Madeleine - too.	Dame illusionist a little money, that's all.	And so well.	My poor Royal.	In such circumstances, we hold out long.	If Dario number will be successful, we will be able to get out.	This is our last chance.	- Phantom.	Cinco!	What do you want?	- Money!	- You're on time.	Cinco, I'm serious.	I have to leave.	- With the strikers?	- Yes.	Right now, Gina, I can not.	But in the evening, after the presentation, I will try.	But it's not great - throw us in a moment.	Sorry, Cinco.	I would have stayed, but I can not.	The rats are leaving the ship.	Hey, little girl, let's go have dinner.	Can not find your number 3968.	Perhaps it has already taken.	Yes, but...	You do not know who?	How should I know?	I atonement for service in 8 hours.	What's more, I could not give you your suitcase without a receipt!	And you tell me, as your colleague who works during the day, - where is he?	At home, I guess.	But if you think that he will be able to remember the customer...!	We then give out per day more than one thing, so...	- Hey, please!	- Yes, I'm coming!	Sorry, sir.	- Everything happened?	- Nothing like this.	Marcella must leave.	She needed all of her money.	What kind of selfish!	- But we still be able to leave?	Leave something we can always.	Depends only, under what conditions.	Any day fly off the vultures, hawks...	Hawks?	Bailiffs!	Do you think they will take my horse?	These people take everything.	Straw and logs, stairs and clocks, machinery and horses...	It Attila of our time!	Log in!	What do you want?	Nothing!	I was passing.	Well, Marcella sent you to hell?	- How do you know?	- To eavesdrop.	I'm always eavesdropping.	- Anyway, you're honest.	- I am glad that you found my dignity.	This will facilitate the work.	Cinco!	You are sitting on the rocks.	- Not at all!	Daughter you hard worker.	But you're still sitting on the rocks!	You already said that.	So what?	But if there was a guy, a good guy in all respects,	Which will accumulate?	What can you offer him?	- You know this guy?	- What can you offer him?	- Well... circus.	Number of Stella and Dario is almost ready.	International Class!	You can repeat it without laughing?	Horse Josiane.	Horse Mademoiselle Josiane!	With or without a rider?	- Nahal!	What do you mean?	I mean that is the only guarantee - if I become your kinsfolk.	I want to marry, and you need money.	I'm getting your son in law, and you save a circus.	For the salvation of the circus, my Kvedchi, you need a lot of money.	I have.	- And cash!	- Yes, I have.	And where?	You know, after my accident I embraced you.	I won.	Yes - compensation, disability benefits.
She wanders around like a ghost, all nerves.	The poor thing is waiting for a letter.	From whom?	Her husband's not up at the front like ours.	She's not waiting for any letter.	- D'you have the 2nd shift at school?	- Yes.	Cranes like ships, Sailing up in the sky...	I can't get those silly verses out of my head.	There she is!	- Who?	- The mail carrier.	If I can count up to 50, there'll be a letter for me.	- One, two, three, four...	- Stop it, Veronica.	- Fifteen, sixteen...	- Veronica, this is madness.	- Nineteen, twenty...	- Stop it!	Forty-seven, forty-eight...	- Good morning!	- Good morning!	Sorry, nothing for you.	Here you are.	- Lebedeva?	- That's me.	- Paliukaitis?	- Nothing.	From my eldest.	From the Ukrainian Front.	I didn't know Boris.	But everyone says what a fine, talented boy he was.	Was?	Listed as missing in action doesn't mean he was killed.	Of course not.	I just didn't put it right.	- What's wrong, Veronica?	- I'm dying, Anna Mikhailovna.	Come on, Veronica.	You poor child.	I've lost everything.	You have your whole life before you.	I don't want it!	What's it good for?	You must forget the past.	It is human nature to forget.	I don't want to forget.	I don't need it.	But you can't go on tormenting yourself for your mistakes.	I should do it.	All my life.	You teach history.	You're a wise woman.	Tell me what's the meaning of life?	The meaning of life?	Maybe it's in...	- Did Chernov get here yet?	- Not yet.	Wow, I'm really famished!	Try to be nice to Chernov when he comes, please.	He makes me ill.	I feel exactly the same way, but after all he's my boss.	That gives you a reason to lick his boots?	Please, Veronica, this can't go on.	You're always so irritable, always criticizing.	Tell me, how can I make you happy?	Just disappear.	Come in, it's open.	Come in!	Mark, pardon my invasion.	Not at all.	It's a pleasure.	Here, let me take that.	Did you see the paper?	The Germans have advanced in the Caucasus.	Yes, it's awful.	But we'll show them what we're made of yet!	Please make yourself comfortable.	It's warm here.	Your place is nice and cozy.	My wife and children are in Tashkent, so I'm kind of homeless.	- Good day, Veronica.	- Good day.	- Where are you going, darling?	- To the hospital.	I'm on duty.	Bundle up.	It's very cold.	I admire your wife.	She's so honest...	She must be very happy with you.	- I was looking for you at the Philharmonic.	- Was there a concert?	No.	But are you going to the birthday party tonight?	I might.	- What are you giving her?	- What can I give her?	The war!	Yes, this war.	It's nothing gorgeous, of course, but tie a little trifle to it and Antonina will be pleased.	It's wonderful!	What do I owe you?	- It's really nothing, forget it.	- Thank you very much.	Mark, can you do me a favor?	- Is someone up there?	- No.	Could you get some drugs for me from Feodor Ivanovich?	Fine job, Irina.	He'll pull through.	I hope so.	It would be downright mean of him not to.	Irina, you should have been a man!	I'm doing all right as a girl.	Veronica!	What are you doing here so early?	The clock was fast.	Poor girl...	I can't forgive her for what she did to Boris.	New patients again!	I told them I have no more room.	I'm running a hospital, not a barrel of herrings!	- Are these from Kalach?	- From Stalingrad.	Some from the front line, others from the hospitals.	No place for us here, either.	Don't worry, they'll find room.	I'll take 80 men.	The rest will have to go to other hospitals.	Let's see now...	Please give my regards to Sergei,	Feodor, Vassily, Aunt Maria,	Agraphyona, Catherine, Barbara,	Nikolai, Catherine...	- You already said Catherine.	- That's another one.	- Don't you want to explain it?	- They'll figure it out.	So, Zinaida, Antonina, Kuzma...	Nurse!	- What do you want, Vorobyov?	- Never mind.	Nurse!	- He wants a potty.	- I'll give it to him.	Thanks.	That's beautiful music!	Turn it up a little louder, will you please?	Shut up your music!	Turn it down!	You hear me?	Who was that shouting?	I did, so what?	- Zakharov, what's wrong?	- Leave ma alone!	He's gone berserk.	He got bad news from home this morning.	His girl just got married to a friend of his, bitch.	He hasn't had a bite to eat.	Try to see what you can do, nurse.	Those broads are worse than fascists, aiming right in the heart.
- But where's she?	- She's busy.	She's supposed to be here.	Her fiance is going away.	I'm not her fiance.	- What are you then?	- Just a friend...	- That sounds suspicious...	- I don't mean that way, Dad.	- Then what do you mean?	- Look, give me a break.	- Here's the alcohol.	- Have it diluted.	I got some port wine.	Drink it yourself.	We'll have a more robust drink.	Well, are we all here?	Let's sit down.	It's Veronica.	Aren't you going to welcome her, friend?	At last!	Is Boris home?	We're from the factory.	Please, come in.	I thought it was the fiancee.	- We've come from the factory.	- What about the presents?	- Sorry.	This one's yours.	- Yes...	Thank you.	On behalf of the Factory Committee...	Comrade Boris, you must fight to the last drop of your blood.	Smash the accursed fascists, and we, in the factory, will fulfil and overfulfil our quotas.	We've heard all that before.	You'd betterjoin us and drink to my son, Boris.	Well, I suppose... life in this world of ours is not yet what we would like it to be.	Now you're going to war, Boris...	- Let's drink.	- To you.	Irina!	What about Grandma?	We saw my brother off last night.	My mother was crying...	- What about you?	- I was too.	- On whose behalf, the committee's?	- I wasn't thinking about that.	There's no one to see off in our family, we have 3 girls and Mom.	It's somewhat embarrassing...	I feel left out...	Yes, and when they come back, you'll really envy us.	The trouble is, not all of them will be coming back.	For those who don't, a magnificent monument, with their names inscribed in gold.	Irina, don'tjust sit there.	Fill the glasses.	And you folks in the rear, fulfil and overfulfil!	Now, Grandma, don't forget.	Mark, stay with Dad.	He'll be all right.	I'll see you off.	About face!	Platoon, forward march!	Take it, Grandma!	- Boris!	- Mamma!	- I won't see him again.	- I'm sorry, Mamma.	Drink it.	You'll feel better.	- Where are you going?	- To the hospital.	But you aren't on call now.	Varvara Kapitonovna, I've got to see Boris...	He's gone.	- Gone?	Where?	- To report for the Army.	- Oh, no!	- Come in.	- Where was he supposed to report?	- I don't know.	What is it?	It's from Boris.	For your birthday.	There's a note inside.	- Where's the note?	- Why?	Isn't it there?	Maybe it fell?	Maybe he forgot in a hurry.	- Forgot?	- He'll write to you.	Where were you?	- Where's Boris gone?	- It's the schoolyard near the park.	Calm down, she'll be here.	It would be quite a job finding someone in this crowd.	What are you doing?	Write to me.	Write every day.	Didn't I tell you to ship the cauliflower?	An airplane is high above, Over the roofs it's droning.	It's my sweetheart sends his love From his sky-high soaring.	It was used to be before That he saw me to my door.	Now it's been quite a turn-off:	I'm the one to see him off!	Don't forget to write your Army Post Office number.	- Cheer up, pug-nose!	- We'll wait till you come back.	Goodbye, Boris!	Take care!	Fall in!	She will come.	Boris!	Boris!	Dress!	Attention!	Forward march!	Boris!	That's my little chicken!	Boris!	Boris!	Grandma...	Nothing?	He hasn't written to me either.	- Any news?	- No.	Oh, this damn war!	We'll have to keep going somehow.	Have you decided about a job?	I'm starting at the war factory tomorrow.	Air-raid alert!	Hurry on to the subway.	I've got to finish this.	Get your things.	- Where's the knapsack?	- It's over there.	I won't go without you.	If it gets bad, we'll run down.	Go on, now.	Be careful in the subway!	She's so frightened, poor thing.	Aren't you?	When I know that Veronica's safe and you're with me,	I'm not such a coward.	The filthy murderers!	We'll get back at you, you wait!	He's not writing to me.	Oh, he must have written.	It's just the mail.	All clear!	The air raid has been terminated.	Let's go!	Here's where I live now.	If you decide to work with us, call me at the factory.	- I will.	- Goodbye.	Get down here!	Come back!	What's the matter?	Are you crazy?	I'm sorry.	Veronica, you can stay with us from now on.	You can have Boris' room.	Mark will move in with Fedya...	Mark, she'll need some attention to keep her from brooding.	Irina and I are so busy at the hospital.	I'll do what I can, Uncle Fedya.	I promised Boris.	- Is it agreed?	- Um-hmm.	Is this the factory?	May I speak to Kuzmin?	He was drafted, too?
Then the only ones to do the fighting will be the fools.	I don't want to talk to you ever again.	Veronica, there's something I must tell you.	I don't want to hear it.	And, please, don't call me Veronica.	- Who am I?	- Squirrel.	Listen...	- What will you give me tomorrow?	- It's a secret.	If you give me something sweet I'll eat it up and forget about it.	Give me something to remember you with.	Kiss me now.	When I'm with you, I'm not afraid of anything.	Not even the war.	Though, I'm afraid of the militia.	- Veronica...	- You know what?	- Do you know?	- No.	I'll have a beautiful white dress made for our wedding.	One like my grandmother had.	And a veil...	Very long and white.	And you should wear your dark suit.	- And you and I will go...	- To a registry office.	- Is it a deal?	- It's a deal.	- You know I like this blackout.	- What's so good about it?	Hi!	- Stepan!	- Veronica!	- I've got a treat for both of you.	- Fine.	- What is it?	- It's a secret.	- Has it arrived?	- Yes, this morning.	- Why didn't you say so?	Tell me.	- Well, go on.	You should've seen what's going on over at the factory.	Make it short, will you?	I'm telling you:	there's so much excitement.	- Never mind that.	- Your folks told me...	- When do we report?	- Today at 5:30.	Look at those cherries!	Is anything wrong?	- They're nice!	- Army orders..	- No!	For you?	- Me too.	We both volunteered...	When?	- You volunteered?	- It's army orders.	Wait!	What about us?	Stepan...	No, I've got to go.	My folks are going to...	So long.	Squirrel!	I didn't want to tell you before your birthday.	- And now I have to go.	- Of course.	Boris!	Squirrel, what is this?	White cranes flying...	I like that.	I'm going to be all right.	Do you hear?	And after that we'll live together...	a hundred years.	Go on now.	We'll say goodbye later.	Don't be late.	What difference would it make if he went a day later?	What a nerve if he's still with Veronica.	- Boris!	- Did Dad call?	He was furious.	Why didn't you tell anyone?	So that we didn't have any scenes like that.	Get these prints back to the factory tomorrow.	- Give them to Kuzmin, the engineer.	- I will, don't worry	What are you putting in there?	I'm going out for a bottle of wine.	Grandma, do me a favor.	Just a minute...	- Will they send you to the front?	- Probably.	Here, Grandma..	Wait.	Tomorrow when you get up, take this to her...	- What is it?	- Her birthday present.	And help her.	After all, it's war...	Please, be kind to her.	And what if I die?	You don't have the right, especially now, with so many secrets to protect.	- Well, suppose I do...	- Come on...	Quiet now, Grandma.	That's Veronica!	No, it's just Irina.	Thank heaven, you've come.	- Boris!	- Yes?	Come over here.	You're 25 years old and you behave like a fool.	What are we, children?	What is it?	Are we playing hide and seek?	Are you starved for adventures?	What kind of a man are you?	Where's Irina, and Mark?	Irina is making coffee, Mark went out for wine.	Coffee, wine...	What kind of send-off is that?	Irina!	Bring that thing from the medicine chest.	Boris, come over here.	- Where is Veronica?	- She'll be here.	- But where's she?	- She's busy.	She's supposed to be here.	Her fiance is going away.	I'm not her fiance.	- What are you then?	- Just a friend...	- That sounds suspicious...	- I don't mean that way, Dad.	- Then what do you mean?	- Look, give me a break.	- Here's the alcohol.	- Have it diluted.	I got some port wine.	Drink it yourself.	We'll have a more robust drink.	Well, are we all here?	Let's sit down..	It's Veronica.	Aren't you going to welcome her, friend?	At last!	Is Boris home?	We're from the factory.	Please, come in.	I thought it was the fiancee..	- We've come from the factory.	- What about the presents?	- Sorry.	This one's yours.	- Yes...	Thank you.	On behalf of the Factory Committee....	Comrade Boris, you must fight to the last drop of your blood	Smash the accursed fascists, and we, in the factory, will fulfil and overfulfil our quotas.	We've heard all that before.	You'd better join us and drink to my son, Boris.	Well, I suppose... life in this world of ours is not yet what we would like it to be.	Now you're going to war, Boris...	- Let's drink.	- To you.	Irina!	What about Grandma?	We saw my brother off last night.	My mother was crying...	- What about you?
Stop chomping!	Running around all night...	Are you jealous?	You haven't torn it, have you?	Your jacket's all right.	Outrageous!	It's noon and he's still in bed.	The boy deserves a good rest on Sunday.	He works hard.	That work of his will result in a marriage.	That's when you'll be really jealous.	For Irina, her diploma comes first.	Look out, Uncle Fedya.	She'll be a full professor soon, while you're still only a MD.	If children don't surpass their parents, then the children are fools and the parents are no better.	Thanks, Mamma.	This is Radio Moscow broadcasting over all of the Soviet Union!	- What is it?	- What has happened?	Boris!	We're at war!	Do you hear?	We're at war!	Leave me alone!	Hi!	Boris is working day and night.	Are you waiting for him?	I'm not waiting for anyone.	Veronica!	In time of war, one should not get confused.	One should hold on to a normal life pace.	Take me.	I dream of dedicating to you my first symphony.	Will you come to the concert?	Suppose the Army calls you up?	The Army?	I doubt it.	Hardly.	Why "hardly"?	The most talented ones will be exempted.	- Are you the most talented one?	- Me?	Certainly.	Why are you following me around?	Aren't you ashamed?	I am.	I tried to keep away from you.	I know, Boris is my cousin.	But I can't help myself!	Wait!	- Wait!	- I'm going home alone.	Hey, slow down!	You just had an operation.	I'd better be in shape for that field-pack.	They're not wasting men like you in the Army.	There'll only be one exemption here, and one of us'll get it.	They'd better give it to you.	You've got knowledge, experience.	And you've got talent.	Save your sketches.	My wife's already got my bag packed.	Well, as they say, let's get our bayonets ready.	Hey, Stepan!	Guys, give me a hand...	Stepan!	Excuse me, Sachkov.	- Where's the summons?	- Not yet.	I can't wait.	- Are you off now?	- No, I've got those sketches...	- I see.	Take care.	- Okay.	- Hey!	- Yeah?	- Have you told her?	- No, it's too early...	- You're right.	See you tomorrow.	- Right.	- Let go.	- I won't.	- You're going to fall down.	- No, I won't.	- You'll rip up the blackout.	- It's a blanket.	I'm going to call the militia.	I'm sick of the blackout.	Give me the blanket.	- Let go.	You'll fall.	- No, I won't.	Come on, Squirrel, cut it out.	Let me hang this up.	You didn't come to the embankment today, but Mark did.	- He's very handsome.	- So what?	- Aren't you jealous?	- What?	- Aren't you jealous?	- I haven't got the time for it.	I won't have much time either when I go to the architecture college.	You'll never pass the entrance exams.	- I will!	- I doubt it.	Cranes like ships Sailing up in the sky,	White ones and grey ones, With long beaks, they fly.	- Do you like my song?	- Very profound.	Oh frogs, you keep on croaking, Why didn't you think of looking up?	You went on leaping, in mud soaking That's why you ended eaten up.	- All right, you won, hero.	- I won, I won!	I won.	All right.	- D'you think you'll be drafted?	- Sure.	- You won't volunteer?	- I might.	Why not?	No, you won't!	I won't let you.	You know you'll get an exemption.	That's why you talk so big.	- Why do you think so?	- Everyone smart will be exempted.	Then the only ones to do the fighting will be the fools.	I don't want to talk to you ever again.	Veronica, there's something I must tell you.	I don't want to hear it.	And, please, don't call me Veronica.	- Who am I?	- Squirrel.	Listen...	- What will you give me tomorrow?	- It's a secret.	If you give me something sweet, I'll eat it up and forget about it.	Give me something to remember you with.	Kiss me now.	When I'm with you, I'm not afraid of anything.	Not even the war.	Though, I'm afraid of the militia.	- Veronica...	- You know what?	- Do you know?	- No.	I'll have a beautiful white dress made for our wedding.	One like my grandmother had.	And a veil...	Very long and white.	And you should wear your dark suit.	- And you and I will go...	- To a registry office.	- Is it a deal?	- It's a deal.	- You know I like this blackout.	- What's so good about it?	Hi!	- Stepan!	- Veronica!	- I've got a treat for both of you.	- Fine.	- What is it?	- It's a secret.	- Has it arrived?	- Yes, this morning.	- Why didn't you say so?	Tell me.	- Well, go on.	You should've seen what's going on over at the factory.	Make it short, will you?
- For you.	Come with me.	I'm not afraid of anything.	- Veronica, let's go to the subway!	- No, I'm not going.	- Stop it!	You've gone crazy!	- I'm not going!	I love you.	No.	- I love you!	- No!	No!	- I love you!	- Go away.	- I love you!	- No!	No!	No!	It's stupid to get surrounded like this.	- Stepan, quit whining.	- Who's whining?	I'm not.	The captain said we might be able to break out by tonight.	Yeah, that's what he says.	Sachkov!	Where'd you find that rookie?	In the incubator.	He's our reinforcements.	Now we'll break through for sure.	Is that a way to talk about a married soldier?	I got yoked in my last year of school.	The result of too much of education.	You're funny.	Laughed yourselves right into a trap, I guess.	- Volodya, you really married?	- I said it to sound important.	- Borozdin!	- Yes?	You'll go on a reconnaissance mission.	You got to find the best place for us to break through tonight.	- Turn in your documents.	- Yes, sir.	Hey, Sachkov!	Take this, will you?	Why don't we rest?	And have a smoke.	Is she always laughing like that?	She probably thinks we're all dead.	Let me see that beauty.	Hey, that's the soldier's life for you!	- You're here, and she...	- And she what?	Hey, let me try that thing.	- Hold it, will you, Sachkov?	- Certainly.	Not bad for a first try.	Stop that!	- Aren't you ashamed?	- No, sir.	- Five days under arrest!	- Yes, sir.	- You both go on a reconnaissance.	- Why?	Turn in your papers!	Boris, here.	On account of her?	- I'd say she was worth it.	- She sure is!	However, we must maintain discipline!	You hear that?	Discipline...	Stepan, keep this.	Be careful, don't lose it.	We...	We'll get married, Uncle Fedya.	Oh, I forgot.	There's some sausage left.	- Keep your head down!	- Stop ordering around!	Let's get out of here before they get wise.	- If you're scared, run.	- Come on, you idiot!	Hey!	Musician!	Are you deaf?	Why the hell I've got tied up with him?	What's wrong with you?	Can you hear me?	- Go on.	I want to rest for a while.	- Are you wounded?	Hold on to me.	- Leave me alone.	- I tell you, get up!	Now hang on, hold tight.	This way's no good.	I'll have to carry you.	Come on, leave me here.	Are you still sore because I punched you?	- You were just lucky, otherwise...	- Shut up, we'll talk later.	Here we go...	Are you all right?	Hold on, friend.	It's only a little way to the woods.	We'll be safe there.	I'm winded.	Let's rest a bit.	It's a little quieter here.	How are you?	It's hard to breathe.	Hold on, we'll have to get you married yet...	Hey, buddy!	What's the matter with you?	What's wrong?	Forgive me, friend, forgive me...	It's my fault...	Forgive me...	friend...	Hey, somebody!	Help!	Help!	Help!	Can you hear me, Boris?	Are you hit?	It's nothing, I am just...	The Soviet Information Bureau reports that there were no important changes on the front in the past 24 hours.	No news is good news.	Families evacuated with Plant 326 will be quartered on Vosstaniya Street.	Comrades, report here, please.	- Irina, help me with the wounded.	- I'll get an orderly.	Everybody off!	Siberia!	We can't run much farther.	Poor Mother Russia!	Attention, please!	Chief of Army Hospital, Comrade Borozdin, please report to the military commandant at once.	Maybe we'll find peace here at last.	Out of the way, the evacuated.	Your stove is smoking.	Oh, I'm sorry.	Save your dreaming till the war is over.	Where are you going?	To the hospital.	I'm on duty.	She wanders around like a ghost, all nerves.	The poor thing is waiting for a letter.	From whom?	Her husband's not up at the front like ours.	She's not waiting for any letter.	- D'you have the 2nd shift at school?	- Yes.	Cranes like ships, Sailing up in the sky...	I can't get those silly verses out of my head.	There she is!	- Who?	- The mail carrier.	If I can count up to 50, there'll be a letter for me.	- One, two, three, four...	- Stop it, Veronica.	- Fifteen, sixteen...	- Veronica, this is madness.	- Nineteen, twenty...	- Stop it!	Forty-seven, forty-eight...	- Good morning!	- Good morning!	Sorry, nothing for you.	Here you are.	- Lebedeva?	- That's me.	- Paliukaitis?	- Nothing.	From my eldest.	From the Ukrainian Front.	I didn't know Boris.	But everyone says what a fine, talented boy he was.	Was?	Listed as missing in action doesn't mean he was killed.	Of course not.
What's wrong, Boris?	Are you wounded?	I'm not wounded.	I...	The Soviet Information Bureau reports no important changes on the fronts in the last 2 4 hours.	No important changes.	That's good.	Families evacuated with Moscow Plant 3 26 will be quartered on Vostaniya Street.	Comrades, report here.	Irina, help this wounded man.	- The paramedics will be here soon.	- Yes.	Unload!	Siberia.	We can't retreat much farther.	This is what's become of Mother Russia.	Attention, attention!	Chief of Hospital Number 4, Borozdin,  report to the military commandant.	Perhaps we'll find some peace here.	Clear the way, folks.	The stove is smoking.	I'm sorry.	You can daydream when the war is over.	Where are you going?	To the hospital.	I'm on duty.	She wanders around like a ghost, all nerves.	She's always waiting for a letter.	From whom?	Her husband's right here.	Not like us, soldiers' wives.	She's not waiting for a letter from anyone.	- Are you on the second shift at school?	- Yes.	"Cranes like ships sailing in the sky."	Those silly lines are stuck in my head.	There it is.	- What?	The mail.	If I can count up to 50, there'll be a letter for me.	- Veronica, this is crazy.	...16, 17, 18, 19 20, 21...	- Stop!	...45, 46, 47...	- Hello.	- Hello.	There's nothing for you.	For you.	Lededeva?	- That's me.	- Palyukaitis?	- Nothing.	From my eldest son on the Ukrainian front.	I didn't know Boris, but everyone says he was a gifted young man.	Was?	Missing doesn't mean dead.	Of course not.	That didn't come out right.	What's the matter, Veronica?	I'm dying, Anna Mikhailovna.	My dear, what are you saying?	- I've lost everything.	- You have your life ahead of you.	I don't want to live!	What's the use?	- Forget the past.	It's human nature to forget.	I don't want to forget.	There's nothing I need to forget.	You mustn't punish yourself forever.	I must.	Till the end.	You teach history.	You're an intelligent woman.	Tell me:	What is the meaning of life?	The meaning of life?	Perhaps it's that...	Was Chernov here?	No.	Boy, am I hungry!	If Chernov comes, try to be polite.	He's revolting.	I may find him even more revolting than you do, but he's the boss.	Why do you always kiss up to him?	Dear Veronica, you're impossible.	You're always so irritable, and you keep picking on me.	Tell me what I can do for you.	I wish you had never been born.	Come in!	- I hope I'm not intruding.	- We're always happy to see you.	Make yourself comfortable.	Did you hear?	The Germans have advanced in the Caucasus.	It's awful.	But don't worry.	We'll show them yet.	Please, make yourself comfortable.	Your place is cozy.	My wife and children are in Tashkent, so I live like a homeless tramp.	Hello, Veronica.	- Where are you going, dearest?	- I'm on duty at the hospital.	- Bundle up.	It's very cold.	I admire your wife.	She's always so candid, so pure.	She must be very happy with you.	I looked for you today at the Philharmonic.	- Was there a concert?	- No.	Will you be at the birthday party tonight?	Probably.	- What will you take for a gift?	- What can I give?	Yes... the war.	It's nothing great, but attach a little something to it and I'm sure Antonina will be very happy.	It's wonderful.	How much do I owe you?	- It's nothing.	Don't mention it.	- Thanks very much.	Mark, I have a favor to ask.	Is there anyone upstairs?	No.	Do you think you could ask Fyodor Ivanovich for some medicine?	Good job, Irina.	He's going to live.	I hope so.	He'll be a real swine if he dies.	Irina, you should have been born a man!	I feel pretty good as a woman.	Veronica, why are you so early?	The clock was fast.	Poor girl.	I'll never forgive what she did to Boris.	Here comes another batch!	I've told you already, we're full!	This is a hospital, not a sardine can!	Where are they all from?	Kalach?	- Stalingrad.	Some from the front, some from the hospital.	There's no room.	Don't worry, they'll make room.	I'll take 80 men.	The rest will have to go to other hospitals.	Now, then... give my regards to Uncle Sergei,	Fyodor, Vassily,	Aunt Marya, Agrafena,	Katerina, Varvara,	Nikolai,	Katerina.	You already said Katerina.	This is a different Katerina.	- Then you should say so.	- It's okay.	They'll figure it out.	So...	Zinaida,	Antonina, Kuzma...	Nurse!	What's the matter, Vorobyev?	Nothing.	I want the nurse.	He needs the bedpan.
Tomorrow's your birthday.	I have to go.	Of course.	Squirrel.	What's the matter?	Cranes like ships	You like my poem?	Nothing will happen to me.	You hear?	And then you and I will live for a long, long time.	A hundred years.	Go.	We'll say good-bye later.	All right.	Don't be late.	Can't he stay home until tomorrow?	He's a swine if he's still at Veronica's.	Boris!	- Did Dad call?	- Yes.	He's furious.	Why didn't you tell us?	To avoid scenes like this.	Go to the factory tomorrow and turn these over to Kuzmin, the engineer.	I will, I will.	What are you stuffing in there?	I'm running out for a bottle of wine.	Grandma, do me a favor.	Just a minute.	Will they send you to the front right away?	Probably.	Here... wait a minute.	Early tomorrow morning take this to her.	What is it?	It's her birthday tomorrow.	And later, if things are hard for her...	After all, this is war...	Help her out.	And if I die?	You've got no business dying, especially now that you know so many secrets.	I just might up and die.	Quiet.	That's Veronica.	No, it's Irina.	Thank God, you're home.	Boris!	Come over here.	What is this about?	You're 25 years old and you...	forgive me... act like a fool!	What are we?	Children?	Is this a game?	Hide-and-seek?	He wants adventure!	There's character for you.	Where are Irina and Mark?	Irina's making coffee.	Mark went out to buy some wine.	Coffee, wine!	What's wrong with people these days?	Irina!	Bring me the bottle from the medicine cabinet.	Boris!	Come here.	Where's Veronica?	- She'll be here any minute.	- Where is she?	She's busy.	This isn't right.	She should be here.	Her fiancé is leaving.	I'm not her fiancé.	- What are you, then?	- We're just...	You're just what?	That sounds suspicious.	- I don't mean it that way, Dad.	- Then what do you mean?	- Stop picking on me.	- Wait!	- Why are you bothering him?	- Here.	From the medicine cabinet.	- Go ahead and mix it properly.	- Here's the port.	Drink it yourself.	We'll have a real drink.	So, is everybody here?	Sit down.	It's Veronica!	Go meet your bride, Mr. Bridegroom!	Finally!	- We came from the factory to see Boris.	- Please come in.	And I thought the bride had arrived.	- We're from the plant.	- They told us to bring you these gifts.	Sorry.	This one.	- On behalf of the Plant Committee...	- And the Communist Youth League...	What you want to say is:	"Comrade Boris, fight to the last drop of blood, and beat the fascists!	And we at the plant will meet and exceed our production quotas."	We've heard all that before.	Why don't you sit down with us, girls, and drink to my son Boris!	Things in this world aren't going as smoothly as we might like.	So now you're off to war, Boris...	- Let's have a drink!	- To you!	A glass for Grandma.	We sent our brother off yesterday.	Mother cried and cried.	What about you?	- I cried too.	- On behalf of the Plant Committee?	- No, on my own.	- Don't embarrass her.	We've got no one to send off.	There's just Mother and three girls.	We even felt a little ashamed, with all the others leaving...	When our men come back, you'll envy us.	The trouble is not all of them will come back.	For those who don't, we'll build a monument reaching to the sky with every one of their names in gold.	Irina, pour another round.	What are you waiting for?	I'll just put these away.	Well, you folks in the rear, meet and exceed your quotas!	Grandma, don't forget.	Mark, don't go.	Stay with Father.	- I'll walk you to the trolley.	About face!	Guards, forward march!	- Mother!	- The last time.	I'm sorry.	Not in the mood for a drink?	Where are you going?	- I'm going on duty.	You were on duty yesterday.	Varvara Kapitanova, may I see Boris for just a moment?	- He already left.	- He left?	Where did he go?	- To the assembly station.	- Oh, no.	- Come in.	- Where's the assembly station?	- I don't know.	- What's this?	- It's from Boris, for your birthday.	There's a note too.	- Where's the note?	- Isn't it there?	He must have forgotten in the rush.	Forgotten?	He'll write to you.	Where were you?	- Where's the assembly station?	- It's on Zvenigorodskaya.	Don't worry.	She'll come.	Even if she does, how will she find me in this crowd?	What are you doing?	Boris, where's Veronica?	Write to me every day.	Who has the invoices for the cauliflower?	Don't forget to send your field address.
All right.	- D'you think you'll be drafted?	- Sure.	- You won't volunteer?	- I might.	Why not?	No, you won't!	I won't let you.	You know you'll get an exemption.	That's why you talk so big.	- Why do you think so?	- Everyone smart will be exempted.	Then the only ones to do the fighting will be the fools.	I don't want to talk to you ever again.	Veronica, there's something I must tell you.	I don't want to hear it.	And, please, don't call me Veronica.	- Who am I?	- Squirrel.	Listen...	- What will you give me tomorrow?	- It's a secret.	If you give me something sweet, I'll eat it up and forget about it.	Give me something to remember you with.	Kiss me now.	When I'm with you, I'm not afraid of anything.	Not even the war.	Though, I'm afraid of the militia.	- Veronica...	- You know what?	- Do you know?	- No.	I'll have a beautiful white dress made for our wedding.	One like my grandmother had.	And a veil...	Very long and white.	And you should wear your dark suit.	- And you and I will go...	- To a registry office.	- Is it a deal?	- It's a deal.	- You know I like this blackout.	- What's so good about it?	Hi!	- Stepan!	- Veronica!	- I've got a treat for both of you.	- Fine.	- What is it?	- It's a secret.	- Has it arrived?	- Yes, this morning.	- Why didn't you say so?	Tell me.	- Well, go on.	You should've seen what's going on over at the factory.	Make it short, will you?	I'm telling you:	there's so much excitement...	- Never mind that.	- Your folks told me...	- When do we report?	- Today at 5:30.	Look at those cherries!	Is anything wrong?	- They're nice!	- Army orders.	- No!	For you?	- Me too.	We both volunteered...	When?	- You volunteered?	- It's army orders.	Wait!	What about us?	Stepan...	No, I've got to go.	My folks are going to...	So long.	Squirrel!	I didn't want to tell you before your birthday.	- And now I have to go.	- Of course.	Boris!	Squirrel, what is this?	White cranes flying...	I like that.	I'm going to be all right.	Do you hear?	And after that we'll live together...	a hundred years.	Go on now.	We'll say goodbye later.	Don't be late.	What difference would it make if he went a day later?	What a nerve if he's still with Veronica.	- Boris!	- Did Dad call?	He was furious.	Why didn't you tell anyone?	So that we didn't have any scenes like that.	Get these prints back to the factory tomorrow.	- Give them to Kuzmin, the engineer.	- I will, don't worry.	What are you putting in there?	I'm going out for a bottle of wine.	Grandma, do me a favor.	Just a minute...	- Will they send you to the front?	- Probably.	Here, Grandma...	Wait.	Tomorrow when you get up, take this to her...	- What is it?	- Her birthday present.	And help her.	After all, it's war...	Please, be kind to her.	And what if I die?	You don't have the right, especially now, with so many secrets to protect.	- Well, suppose I do...	- Come on...	Quiet now, Grandma.	That's Veronica!	No, it's just Irina.	Thank heaven, you've come.	- Boris!	- Yes?	Come over here.	You're 25 years old and you behave like a fool.	What are we, children?	What is it?	Are we playing hide and seek?	Are you starved for adventures?	What kind of a man are you?	Where's Irina, and Mark?	Irina is making coffee, Mark went out for wine.	Coffee, wine...	What kind of send-off is that?	Irina!	Bring that thing from the medicine chest.	Boris, come over here.	- Where is Veronica?	- She'll be here.	- But where's she?	- She's busy.	She's supposed to be here.	Her fiance is going away.	I'm not her fiance.	- What are you then?	- Just a friend...	- That sounds suspicious...	- I don't mean that way, Dad.	- Then what do you mean?	- Look, give me a break.	- Here's the alcohol.	- Have it diluted.	I got some port wine.	Drink it yourself.	We'll have a more robust drink.	Well, are we all here?	Let's sit down.	It's Veronica.	Aren't you going to welcome her, friend?	At last!	Is Boris home?	We're from the factory.	Please, come in.	I thought it was the fiancee.	- We've come from the factory.	- What about the presents?	- Sorry.	This one's yours.	- Yes...	Thank you.	On behalf of the Factory Committee...	Comrade Boris, you must fight to the last drop of your blood.	Smash the accursed fascists, and we, in the factory, will fulfil and overfulfil our quotas.	We've heard all that before.	You'd better join us and drink to my son, Boris.
- Congratulations!	Where's the squirrel?	Where's my squirrel?	Look, you mustn't think that...	There's a note here from somebody named Boris.	My only one, happy birthday...	On this day you were born.	It's hard leaving you.	But it can't be helped.	It's war!	I must go.	We can't go on living the way we did, enjoying ourselves while death stalks our land.	We will be happy some day.	I love you, I trust you.	Your Boris.	Why are you so alarmed?	Go home.	I'll be right back.	Why?	- Take your coat off.	- Thank you.	You know, all the Philharmonic cars are being used tonight, and I must have a car.	You're Chief Surgeon, you won't refuse me this little favor...	Transportation is our most critical problem.	It was difficult for me too, but I did my best.	I went out of my way, because you asked me...	- What I asked you?	- The exemption.	Now it's about to expire, and this time to get it will be almost impossible.	- What d'you mean, exemption?	- The exemption for Mark.	You can be sure I handled the whole thing discreetly.	Could Mark have done it without informing you?	He even offered me money in your name...	I'm sorry.	I'm glad you're here, Uncle Fedya.	I wish you'd talk to her.	She burst in without being invited, started a fight...	Shut the door.	Do you believe that anybody likes having his son marching off to war?	What do you mean?	Or do you believe that for your petty pleasures and well-being others must lose their arms, legs, eyes, jaws, even their lives?	And you owe nothing to no one?	You know I've got an exemption, Uncle Fedya.	Tell us how you got this exemption.	What are you doing, Veronica?	It's all right.	I'm going to rent a room.	And I'm taking the boy...	Perhaps someone else had better rent a room?	Gladly.	I've been wanting to for a long time.	I wish you'd driven me out in the first place.	You've been through a terrible ordeal.	Only one who had done something worse could have condemned you.	Stay with us.	I can't.	I cannot hide behind someone else's back.	I don't want to.	Think it over.	Listen, where can I find the Borozdin family?	- Which one are you looking for?	- Feodor Ivanovich.	He is not in at the moment.	Are you from Boris?	No, I'm by myself.	I have to see Feodor Ivanovich.	- Won't you sit down?	- Thanks.	Feodor Ivanovich should be here in a few minutes.	- May I go out?	- All right.	- Is he yours?	- Yes, he's mine.	He looks like you.	Are you a relative of the Borozdins?	Not really.	Well, I've done all the fighting I'll ever do.	Going home?	Not yet.	Leningrad's still blockaded.	- Yeah, I'm in a spot.	- Why?	I guess there's no harm in telling you because you're not the family.	But how do you tell a man his son was killed?	- Where did it happen?	- Near Smolensk.	What do you want me to play?	I don't care.	Tell me, did you see him buried?	No.	I was put on a stretcher and taken to a hospital, and he was with a friend of his, Stepan.	Stepan...	I've got to find his girl now.	He was really in love with her.	I'm the girl.	Come to see us when you're in Moscow, Volodya.	Thanks very much.	I will.	The war's over.	It's strange, isn't it?	And you're still waiting?	I am.	One must always keep on hoping.	What's the use of waiting?	I saw it with my own eyes.	What did you see?	You saw him wounded?	You saw him fall?	You didn't see him die.	But if he's alive, why hasn't he written to you?	Anything could happen.	Stepan hasn't written to anyone either.	They know at the factory that he was in some Special Operations.	Dasha promised to let me know when he's back.	Boris is alive.	He's alive.	Look!	The victors are coming!	Kolia, darling, you're back!	Boris!	Veronica!	Stepan!	The flowers...	For you.	Well?	What?	You see...	Well...	My darling!	Dear mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters!	The happiness of our reunion is boundless.	The heart of every Soviet citizen sings with joy, the joy of victory!	We have all waited for this happy moment.	We dreamed of it in the darkest hours of our struggle.	But we'll never forget those who lie silent on the battlefield.	Years will pass, our cities will rise again, and our wounds may one day be forgotten.	Let one thing remain in our hearts, a cold hatred of war!	We deeply feel the grief of those who cannot meet their loved ones today.	We must all take a vow to keep our promise that sweethearts will never again be parted by war, that mothers may never again fear for their children, that our brave fathers may not stealthily swallow their tears.
Hey!	Watch it!	Nadia Lotfy?	!	- Kawthar!	- How are you, Nadia?	How are you?	No one has seen you since school days	- Dad, my friend Kawthar	- How do you do?	Why don't you come sit with us?	I will wait for you under the umbrella	Come	- Tell me about your news	- In only 6 words	I got married then got divorced	And you?	Did you marry your cousin, Medhat?	Not at all	You made me ditch him then you left him?	You still remember?	That was kids' play	- Is that your dad?	- Yes	He's young and nice and loveable	- He is so kind	- Then why did he divorce twice?	- Just bad luck	- He must be old-fashioned	No, if you mingle with him, you'll find him very cool	Come and I'll introduce you	Hello	Dad, Kawthar was the prettiest girl at school	- You were always prettier, Nadia	- No, you were	OK, then you were the prettiest brunette and I the prettiest blonde	Black and white, then?	How enchanting!	Kawthar says you look young	- Should I say more?	- Stop embarrassing me	- Come on, tell me	- You are loveable	- Don't you love me?	- I do, a great deal	Kawthar is young since she was your schoolmate	I am not young, Dad!	I am older than Nadia, I am 25	- Really?	- Don't get worked up, I'm 24	Ask Kawthar to spend the day with us tomorrow if she's not busy	I have nothing planned for tomorrow	We are going on a trip, you'll love it	I have to go take a dip, excuse me	- Your friend is really nice	- She's well-mannered and fun	She looks well-bred	She was always kind and loyal	It shows	- Who are those?	- None of your business	- The man is staring at you	- Pretend you don't know me	I am sure that man is crazy over you	Tomorrow he'll be on his knees	We'll have a Cadillac, not this old jalopy	Good luck, darling	Hello	- Where is Nadia?	- On her way	The atmosphere is awesome, so romantic	It seems that you are very romantic	I love romance	Are you from Cairo or Alexandria?	From Cairo	Great, so we'll see you when we get back, come and visit Nadia	Yes, but life is full of worries	What worries you?	Are you married?	- No, divorced	- We are in the same boat!	No, I had only one divorce!	- You are still young	- I am 23 and a half	Never seen a woman blurt out her real age like that	I may be cheating a little bit	You have gotten along already!	You are very lucky to have such a sweet father, Nadia	- You can have him!	- Excuse me	- What do you think of Dad?	- He's really slick	He sneaks his way into your heart	Give him a break!	He's so kind!	I wish he'd marry you	As if you were his mother, looking for a bride for him!	I am the only woman in his life so far	So, do you want to be his mother, daughter, or wife?	I can't be his mother or his daughter of course	Come on	Let's go	She wants to marry my father but does she love him?	Maybe	Who cares?	All that matters is that Dad will be happy	Maybe I can redeem myself of my crime	I miss you, Mostafa, I was so busy	Dad is okay, thanks	Ever since he met Kawthar he's become very happy	Everyday, parties, outings, and presents	Won't you come for a few days?	You'll go to the farm in this heat?	Okay..	Good-bye, Mostafa	- Good morning, Dad	- Good morning, Nadia	- You are up early	- Isn't Kawthar here yet?	No, not yet	Do you know that she likes you?	You really make a charming couple, but this time..	- The third one always sticks	- Will you have a wedding?	We will have a big celebration the day you get married, dear	We'll just have a small reception at the hotel and then return to Cairo	May God bless	- Yes?	- Apdou wants his salary	I can't be bothered with salary or celery!	Go to Nadia, I don't care about these things	- Bless you Lady Safiya	- What are you mumbling?	The master will never find a better wife, God damn the culprits!	We will never hear the end of this, will we?	Kawthar is Safiya's equal, maybe even better!	- Good morning	- Good morning	Still no answer	- Tell me, sweetie	- Hello, love	Did I lose or gain weight during the honeymoon?	I can't tell if you gained weight or not	All I can see is that you've become very gorgeous!	Remember, we were going to Europe for our honeymoon?	You didn't want to, put if you insist, let's go	How much money did I save you?	A good sum	Then get me the car you promised me	We already have two cars here	No, I want my own car	As you wish, my darling	Answer, stop being so rude!
Maybe I better wait till this evening, Ben, and let you drive me.	Why wait?	The man's got a nice car, plenty of room in it.	Let me take that.	Good-bye, Mr. Cameron.	Remember, Ben.	This is the way you wanted it.	Yeah.	I'm awful glad to see you, Meg.	- You knew I was here?	- Sure.	I've been hunting for you for quite a while.	I missed you, honey.	I've missed you too, Nardo, ever since the day I was arrested.	You were supposed to come back from Los Angeles that morning.	You never did.	I know.	I started, but I just never got there.	I started the night before.	Then I hit a truck on that straightaway going into Bakersfield.	I didn't come to for five weeks.	I don't believe you.	I can show you the records of the Bakersfield General Hospital, if you like- 14 months of'em.	You're too good on things like that, Nardo.	I wouldn't believe them either.	- Would you believe that?	- Nardo.	Took me six months before I could even write you a letter.	And when I did, it came back "addressee unknown."	I didn't know what had happened till I got back to San Francisco.	By then, you'd been in Tehachapi for almost a year.	So I got ahold of a lawyer.	I gave him some dough to work on your parole.	Then I had to get out of town.	- Where'd you go?	- Chicago.	But when I did make parole, you weren't there.	I know, honey.	I was in New York when the lawyer's letter came.	I got the news two weeks late.	So I caught the first plane to San Francisco, but... you weren't there.	You weren't anywhere.	Where'd you expect me to be?	I know, honey.	I don't blame you.	I just don't want you to blame me too much.	After all, we-we did find each other.	You do believe me, don't you?	I don't know what to believe.	I'm almost afraid to believe anything anymore.	Take me into town, Nardo.	Don't make me cry.	You know how I hate that.	I know, honey.	- Here.	Let me take that.	- I'd rather.	Meg.	Will you have dinner with me tonight?	No, I don't think so, Nardo.	I have a lot of thinking to do.	Hello, Mrs. Cameron.	Having a night on the town?	I'd like a single with a bath.	Ben still working?	It's 212.	First room up on your right.	I'll bring your baggage up as soon as I register this gentleman.	- I'd like a bath too.	- Oh.	When you take up the lady's bag, take up a nice jar of bubble bath too, will you?	Yes, sir.	- Sandalwood, if you got it.	- Yes, sir.	Thank you.	~ You'll never know just how much ~	~ I miss you ~	~ You'll never know Just how much ~	~ I care ~	~ And if I tried ~	~ I still couldn't hide ~	~ My love for you ~	~ You ought to know ~	~ For haven't I told you so ~	~ A million or more times ~	~ You went away ~	~ And my heart ~	~ Went with you ~	~ I speak your name ~	~ In my every breath ~~	- You remember this song?	- Yes.	And this dress-Where?	Peacock Room, Palace Hotel, San Francisco.	We decided to become a team.	Ah, you do remember.	And what a team.	Best in the business.	- Why weren't we ever honest?	- What do you mean, honest?	We only took the people who could afford it.	We only took those who thought they could take us.	Nothing dishonest about that.	Remember that wildcatter in Dallas?	Boy, what a killing.	You bought me a mink coat and a diamond clip.	Yeah.	Oh, those were the days.	I hocked them when we went broke in Paris.	We weren't a very lucky team, were we?	Well, I don't say we didn't have a couple of hard times once in a while, but-	Listen, honey.	Let's sit down and have a drink.	Okay?	Right over there.	- Hiya, Barry.	- Well, hello, Ben.	I'm glad you dropped in.	That section of land next to yours is open now, if you want it.	I came to sell you my place.	Still want to buy it?	You didn't seem to think my price was right.	Well, I changed my mind.	- One old-fashioned with scotch and a brandy and soda.	Honey, I've got something big this time- bigger than you can imagine.	No, Nardo, I'm all through with that sort of thing.	Just count me out.	But, honey, don't get me wrong.	We've got enough to last us for the rest of our lives- one million dollars.	It's what I've always wanted.	And when I got it, I came for you.	How did you get it?	Look, sweetheart.	It was knowing about my deals that got you that jail term.	I don't want it to happen again.	Nobody can ever harm you for something you don't know.	But this is all wrapped up.
You didn't seem to think my price was right.	Well, I changed my mind.	- ~~ [Continues]	- One old-fashioned with scotch and a brandy and soda.	Honey, I've got something big this time- bigger than you can imagine.	No, Nardo, I'm all through with that sort of thing.	Just count me out.	But, honey, don't get me wrong.	We've got enough to last us for the rest of our lives- one million dollars.	It's what I've always wanted.	And when I got it, I came for you.	How did you get it?	Look, sweetheart.	It was knowing about my deals that got you that jail term.	I don't want it to happen again.	Nobody can ever harm you for something you don't know.	But this is all wrapped up.	It's okay, it's safe and it's clean.	- And the police are after you.	- No, no.	That's the beauty of it.	Nobody's after me.	The police are after a bundle of money, but they don't know who's got it.	No description, no photograph, no nothing.	Just a big bundle of beautiful bills with Ben Franklin's picture on 'em.	- [Clicks Tongue] - ~~ [Continues]	That's why you wanted Ben to take you across the border- so you could get away with it, huh?	Well, Ben or anybody else.	I wanted Ben because I wanted his wife.	But for the money I'm willing to pay, we can hire another guide.	- We?	- Who else?	It was always "we."	Always will be.	Come on.	Drink your drink.	We'll make a fresh start, honey.	- Your dinner's ready, sir.	- Oh, thank you.	~~ [Ends]	Well, honeybunch, let's drink up, and tell me what's bothering you, huh?	It's Ben.	You mean that farmer?	I thought you were walking out on him anyhow.	Well, I did, but I'm not sure I should have.	You know, if it weren't for Ben, you know where I'd be now.	But why worry about it, honey?	You don't love the guy.	No, but I like him.	That's pretty important.	What about me?	I guess I love you, Nardo.	I've tried not to.	I	- I thought I was all over it, but I-	I guess I was wrong.	The minute I saw your face, it all came back to me.	[Sighs] Well, you're like something I've caught... and can't quite cure myself of.	I'll get another guide to take us across.	We'll be out of here before morning.	No, we've got to see Ben first-you and I.	Okay.	I don't relish the prospect... but if that's what you want, that's the way it's going to be.	Let's go now and get it over.	~~ [Jazz]	- Hi, Fred.	- Hi, Ben.	- Can I look at that?	- Sure.	212, huh?	[Fred] She ain't up there, Ben.	Where is she?	She left a couple of minutes ago.	- With a guy in a sports car?	- Yeah.	That's right, Ben.	Well	- Gives me a chance to do a little drinking, huh?	Right, Ben.	[Siren Wailing]	[Siren Stops]	- What'd I do wrong, Officer?	- Nothing, I hope.	Can I see your registration certificate?	I know I didn't run through a stoplight.	Was I going too fast?	Can I see your registration certificate?	Well, if I've broken some traffic law, I'm sorry.	If you won't tell me what I did, just write out the ticket, and let's get it over with.	Well, I'm not police.	I'm border patrol.	- Border patrol.	This far from the border?	- That's right, sir.	Nine miles.	We cover back as far as 20 miles.	At 10 miles, we have quite a few spot checks.	- May I take a look in the trunk?	- The trunk?	Sure.	Right back here.	Do you have the key?	Look, Officer.	It's kind of late, and the lady's married.	I got to get her back home fast.	Can't you sort of forget that you ever saw us?	This is the only service I know of that's absolutely free.	You have no right to search my car without a warrant.	Now, look, mister.	We're looking for something special.	We're covering the border from Brownsville to Tijuana.	Now get that key and get it fast.	Here.	What's the matter?	The border patrol won't give you any trouble.	They're always very nice.	Why didn't you want him to look in the trunk?	He wants me to pull up a little.	- [Tire Squealing] - [Screams]	Nardo!	- [Engine Revving]	- Nardo, what have you done?	[Gasps]	[Engine Revs]	[Screams]	- [Screams] - [Revving Continues]	[Screams]	- [Gasping]	- Meg.	- Leave me alone!	Leave me alone!	- Meg, what's wrong with you?	- Meg, what's wrong with you?	- [Sobs]	I was only trying to stop you, honey.	- I thought you were trying to kill me.	- Oh, Meg, sweetheart.	I thought you killed him- I mean, deliberately.	I didn't know the gear was in reverse.
Don't think of the past, sweetheart.	Think of the future.	Think of us together... once we get rid of that husband of yours.	- What do you mean, get rid of him?	- Wait a minute, honey.	I'm no gun-crazy killer.	I don't go out looking for trouble.	I've got nothing against Cameron.	As far as I can see, I never should have.	But you said "get rid of him."	I meant when we get across the border.	I'll pay him off, I'll tell him about us... and that's all there'll be to it.	Nardo, get the $10,000.	Put it on his pack so he'll find it when he gets back.	- What does that get us?	- It'll get us out of here.	We don't need him anymore.	- You mean, we're already across the border?	- No, but we're very close to it.	How close?	- Remember what Ben said about the Papago Reservation?	- Yeah.	Well, we've been there- Ben and I.	It's a long, narrow valley dotted with little Indian farms.	The border's just the other side of it- down there.	- How far would you guess?	- Five miles.	Maybe less.	Then we don't need Ben.	We can make it alone.	After you've put the money on the pack.	Let's go, honey.	This is something we waited for for three years.	Listen.	We've never quite been able to get away from San Francisco, have we?	I don't want to get away from it- not that part of it.	I want to get away from the rest of it.	Honey, we're all through taking the suckers.	We're all through scrounging for money.	From now on, it's gonna be just you... and me.	- Get what you need.	Let's get off the road.	Get gun.	Help!	Help, somebody!	Help!	- What's the matter with you?	What are you trying to do to me?	Don't get scared, son.	I'm not gonna hurt you.	Nice cow.	You pay.	Drop the gun, Denning.	Pick it up.	Give it to me.	- Pay the boy for the cow.	- How much?	Five of those bills you got in your pocket.	- $500?	- Yeah.	We were hunting out on the reservation by mistake.	- You won't tell, huh?	- No.	Here's your gun.	We won't cause you any more trouble.	Let's go back and pick up the gear you left.	Why don't we go on across the border?	I'll be on my way.	How close to the border you think we are?	I thought about five miles.	Five miles?	Why do you look at her?	Is that what she told you?	How would she know?	She's never been here before.	We've got a good two days' hike to cross over.	Why'd you do it, Meg?	Because something's happened to you, Nardo.	Something terrible.	I thought the first one was an accident.	But now I know it wasn't.	- You're a killer.	- That still makes us a team.	I do my own killing.	You want a judge to do yours.	Ben, I	- I should have told you this before.	- This is-	- I know who he is.	She kept your picture.	She was pretty crazy about you.	- I guess she still is.	- Yeah, sure.	Just hope she doesn't get that crazy about you, Cameron.	Because you'll watch her the rest of your life.	What they've done once, they'll do again.	Let's get going.	Okay, we'll stop here.	We can sleep till noon.	You go down there.	We'll stay here.	Here, I'll take that.	Ben?	- Ben.	- Hmm.	Ben, I-	I'm no good, Ben.	I'm no good for anybody.	He still loves me, and I tried to raise the whole countryside so he'd be caught.	Almost did.	I never saw anybody so anxious to get back to the penitentiary.	Why'd you do it?	He wanted to kill you.	Well, we have a lot in common.	I want to kill him.	I'm cured of him, Ben.	Yeah?	Maybe.	There's no maybe about it.	When your blood turns cold and you can't bear the thought of him touching you, you're cured.	Let's leave here, Ben.	Let's leave here and go back to home.	It's not that easy.	You're mixed up in two murders.	There'd be too much explaining.	Besides, I want to be around when Denning dies.	Ben-	That's the way it is.	You mean you'd kill him?	Look.	I've got a rifle wrapped up in this blanket.	Do you know why?	If I didn't, I'd kill him a hundred times a day.	Not for the money?	No, not- not just for the money.	If the money's there, I'm not gonna walk away from it.	How's your arm?	It's swelling a little.	It hurts.	It's bound to.	Go on.	Go and get some sleep.	- What's the matter, Meg?	- My arm.	Too painful!	Honey	- Honey, you have a fever.	- Why didn't you tell me, huh?	- I didn't know.	Come on.	We'll find shelter in that cave.	Can you make it?	Sit down.	Here, let me help.	Let me look at that arm.	How is it?	It's	- It's not good.
What is it?	I swear...you're imagining things.	If you can't trust me, it's pointless you staying here.	You can get out then.	Pierre!	Darling, tell me what's making you so unhappy.	Hélène, if you knew...	Hélène, it was my brother who pulled the Dourdan job.	They robbed a bank and killed two guys.	Freeze!	You seen le Blond?	We were to meet at 9.	Don't bother waiting.	The cops hauled him off.	Oh, Mi-Fa-Sol!	I'm gonna need you.	OK...	I've got a run to do.	I'll explain in the car.	OK.	You'll soon be able to sign.	"Sign"?	I'm innocent.	You think I'm guilty?	A burglar, me?	You're kidding.	But you admitted tonight...	Mind you don't get a stroke.	Well, we'll see.	Be sensible.	You're going to make a mistake.	Sign here as you promised.	What...!	Did I say that?	Well?	You going to stuff us around for long	Speak up!	...	you hear me?	We know everything.	We know who sold you out.	So ask them.	We're tougher than you.	And you'll fold, I guarantee.	Raoul, bring in you know what.	So... what do you think of that?	Pretty, eh?	I told you we're the hard men.	Give in!	And tell us where to find The Gypsy.	You're making us waste time.	Out with it!	Take a photo.	It's part of the loot.	It was found at his place.	His mother's here.	She followed us.	She hopes to see him.	No way.	She seems prepared to wait.	Let her wait.	Here's another headache for you.	You're done for.	Come on, admit it.	The jury'll give you a break.	Stop it.	I've no idea what you're talking about.	If you tell us where The Gypsy is, you'll be better off.	Word of honor.	- You're dummer than I thought.	But you'll come round.	Look who's in my office.	Out here!	What'd I tell you?	Happy to see your old friend?	i don't know this guy.	You can stop your performance.	Who were you with at Dourdan?	I'm waiting.	With Raymond, The Gypsy... and Louis.	Who gave you the job?	Émile, who runs a bar on the Dourdan road.	10 million was for him.	Who hit the motorcyclists?	The Gypsy and The Sailor.	Who decided to throw The Sailor out onto the road?	Louis.	Who stuck up the bank?	We did.	Who came here to HQ this morning?	Who asked to see me?	Who fingered the whole gang?	I didn't want to, Louis.	I had to.	I was scared, scared, scared.	Can you understand?	I was at my wit's end.	I was terrified of you, The Gypsy, the cops, everybody.	You gotta understand!	I had to!	Too much killing!	Too much killing!	Too much killing, I tell you.	Too much killing!	Too much killing!	You can finish this puppet show.	I've never seen him.	As you wish, but you're not going anywhere.	When Emile's here we'll see what you deny,	C'mon boys...	lunch.	And give the photo of The Gypsy to the press.	We gotta move quickly... he's a killer.	Get up.	Hook him up.	Let's hit the chow.	Good-oh!	Send in a man to guard him.	Toss me my coat, I'm cold.	Enjoy your lunch.	Will you bring me a snack?	You can starve, scumbag.	You got a butt, chief?	I'll pay you back.	I'll sign....	Or maybe not.	Don't take your eyes off this smart alec.	Understood, chief.	What do you prefer?	Paté or sausage-loaf?	Whatever you like.	You have my full confidence.	We haven't worked together for a while.	I like night shift.	Not for me.	- I got used to it during the war.	War teaches you nothing.	How?	I made it through the last one.	That's nothing.	- Did you join the force straight away?	No...	I tried other things	I couldn't get a job on the subway.	Me neither.	- I wasn't qualified for the civil service.	Then there was my wife, Paris meant nothing to her.	- She's changed her mind?	You know how it is.	Her uncle had lodgings at the Bastille.	When she came and saw all the cinemas and stuff, she was hooked.	- It's like that, with country girls.	Parents?	No.	I need a "hit and miss".	What?	I need a piss.	Hurry up.	It takes time.	Just a minute.	Go pay the taxidriver, Grenouille.	Just a smidgen more.	Leave it there.	I've gotta catch The Gypsy.	Anyway, if you should see him before me, tell him it wasn't my brother who squealed.	Put everybody wise to that.	You need lolly?	Yeah.	How much?	A 100 thou, OK?	- You need anything else?	A piece.	Ciao, Antoine, and thanks for everything.	Ciao.	Bébert!	Where's Le Blond's brother?	I left him downstairs at his babe's place.	He wanted to see her.	Bolivar Place, 5 or 6.	I'll see if he's in.	Hang on, here he is.	Bébert, Louis on the 'phone.
It's a pity you won't see the first practical use of this bridge.	You'll be glad to know that the completion of this link in the railway will enable us to transport the sick and disabled to the new camp by train.	Colonel Saito has kindly permitted me to stay behind with Major Clipton and the sick men and we'll rejoin you in a few days' time.	Now that your work here is finished I suppose many of you feel somewhat let down.	That's quite understandable.	It's a very natural reaction.	But one day, in a week, a month, a year on that day when, God willing, we all return to our homes again you're going to feel very proud of what you've achieved here in the face of great adversity.	What you have done should be and I think will be an example to all our countrymen, soldier and civilian alike.	You have survived with honour.	That, and more.	Here in the wilderness you have turned defeat into victory.	I congratulate you.	Well done.	To the king.	You're in business.	Now, you got everything?	Stem, ammunition, pack, canteen, knife.	I'll be directly across the river.	The professor says there's always one more thing to do.	I can't think of what it could be.	Except to wish you a long and happy life.	Thank you.	What's happened?	The river's gone down.	You can see the wire.	The charges!	Don't wait for the train.	Do it now!	If Saito is correct, the train will arrive in 5 or 1 0 minutes.	If you don't mind, I'll watch from up on the hill.	Why?	It's better from the bridge.	It's hard to explain, sir.	I'd rather not be a part of it.	As you please.	Honestly, sometimes I don't understand you at all.	As you once said, sir, I've got a lot to learn about the army.	Good morning.	River's gone down in the night.	What's he doing?	Colonel, there's something rather odd going on.	I think we better have a look around before that train comes across.	He's gone mad.	He's leading him right to it!	Our own man!	I was right.	There is something going on.	You've got to do it, boy!	You've got to do it now!	Have you a knife?	I just realized the bridge has been mined!	Mined!	Mined!	Good boy!	British officer!	Here to blow up the bridge.	-Blow up the bridge!	-Yes, sir.	British commando orders.	-Blow up the bridge?	!	-Yes.	There's no time!	No, no!	Help!	Kill him!	Kill him!	Let me go, sir!	You don't understand!	Kill him!	Kill him!	Kill him, Joyce!	You!	You!	What have I done?	Madness!	I had to do it!	I had to do it.	They might have been captured alive!	It was the only thing to do!	Madness!	Madness!	Subtitles by GelulaISDI
A signal arrived yesterday morning from the Pacific authorizing your temporary transfer of duty to Force 31 6.	-They can't do this!	-I'm afraid they have.	It was hard to break it to you.	But they can't do this to me.	I mean it.	My Navy's made a mistake!	Look.	I'm not a Navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	Look.	I'm not a Navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	The whole thing's a fake.	I'm just an ordinary swab jockey, second class.	When the Houston sunk, I made it ashore with a real commander.	We ran into a Japanese patrol.	He was killed.	I figured it was just a matter of time till l--	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	I thought officers would get better treatment in prison camps.	But with Saito, the officers worked along with the rest.	There's always the unexpected, isn't there?	I kind of got used to being a commander so when I arrived at the hospital I took a look at the enlisted men's ward and then the officer's ward and I said to myself, " Let's let it ride along for a while."	There were certain advantages.	I saw one of them on the beach.	That's the whole story.	The point is, you can't use me.	You want an officer an American Commander Shears who doesn't exist.	When the Navy learns the truth, they'll say:	"Ship him home for impersonating an officer."	-Once that happens, I've got it made.	-Got it what?	Made!	I'd like that drink now.	I'll apply for a medical discharge.	I'll say I impersonated an officer because I went crazy in the jungle.	I'm getting worse.	Sometimes I think I'm Admiral Halsey.	It's quite a clever plan.	Not only clever, it's foolproof.	If my Navy finds out who I am those orders won't be worth the paper they're written on.	Isn't this your photograph?	-Where did you get this?	-It took some doing since your people couldn't identify you.	Finally your C-in-C Pacific sent us a copy of your service record.	The photograph, fingerprints.	Would you care to have a look?	You see, we've known about your actual rank for nearly a week.	Your Navy's in an awkward position.	In one sense you're a hero...	In one sense you're a hero for making an escape from the jungle.	At the same time, they can't bring you home and give you the Navy Cross for impersonating an officer.	I suppose that's why they were happy to hand you over.	You see?	Hot potato.	As far as your rank is concerned we're fairly informal about that in Force 31 6.	You'd have the simulated rank of major.	A simulated major.	That figures.	Well....	As long as I'm hooked, I might as well volunteer.	Good show!	Oh, Colonel Green, sir.	This is Major Shears.	He volunteered to go and help me blow up the bridge.	Really?	Good show!	Jolly good show, major!	Get up to sick bay.	This foot's infected.	Colonel might think I'm malingering.	I'm the medical officer.	Get cracking!	Will someone tell me why he wants to build a proper bridge?	Don't worry about old Nick.	He knows what he's doing.	Hello, Clipton.	About time you paid us a visit.	Fine job our chaps are doing.	Yes.	How's he behaving?	He's been most reasonable since we took over.	-What's he thinking?	-I haven't the foggiest.	-Thanks, Reeves.	-Right, sir.	What do you think?	Quite a challenge, isn't it?	Are you convinced that building this bridge is a good idea?	-Are you serious?	-Yes, sir.	A good idea?	Take another look.	You don't agree morale is high?	Discipline has been restored?	Their condition has improved?	Are they a happier lot or aren't they?	They feed better and they are no longer abused.	Honestly, Clipton, there are times when I don't understand you at all.	I'll try to make myself clear.	The fact is, what we're doing could be construed as forgive me, sir, collaboration with the enemy.	Perhaps even treason.	We're prisoners of war.	We haven't the right to refuse to work.	I understand that, sir.	But must we work so well?	I understand that, sir.	But must we work so well?	Must we do better than they could themselves?	If you had to operate on Saito, would you do your best or let him die?	Would you prefer we disintegrate in idleness?	Or have it said we can't do a proper job?	It's important to show them they can't break us in body or in spirit.	Take a good look, Clipton.	One day the war will be over.	I hope that those who use the bridge in years to come will remember how it was built, and who built it.
You see?	Hot potato.	As far as your rank is concerned we're fairly informal about that in Force 316.	You'd have the simulated rank of major.	A simulated major.	That figures.	Well....	As long as I'm hooked, I might as well volunteer.	Good show!	Oh, Colonel Green, sir.	This is Major Shears.	He volunteered to go and help me blow up the bridge.	Really?	Good show!	Jolly good show, major!	Get up to sick bay.	This foot's infected.	Colonel might think I'm malingering.	I'm the medical officer.	Get cracking!	Will someone tell me why he wants to build a proper bridge?	Don't worry about old Nick.	He knows what he's doing.	Hello, Clipton.	About time you paid us a visit.	Fine job our chaps are doing.	Yes.	How's he behaving?	He's been most reasonable since we took over.	-What's he thinking?	-I haven't the foggiest.	-Thanks, Reeves.	-Right, sir.	What do you think?	Quite a challenge, isn't it?	Are you convinced that building this bridge is a good idea?	-Are you serious?	-Yes, sir.	A good idea?	Take another look.	You don't agree morale is high?	Discipline has been restored?	Their condition has improved?	Are they a happier lot or aren't they?	They feed better and they are no longer abused.	Honestly, Clipton, there are times when I don't understand you at all.	I'll try to make myself clear.	The fact is, what we're doing could be construed as forgive me, sir, collaboration with the enemy.	Perhaps even treason.	We're prisoners of war.	We haven't the right to refuse to work.	I understand that, sir.	But must we work so well?	I understand that, sir.	But must we work so well?	Must we do better than they could themselves?	If you had to operate on Saito, would you do your best or let him die?	Would you prefer we disintegrate in idleness?	Or have it said we can't do a proper job?	It's important to show them they can't break us in body or in spirit.	Take a good look, Clipton.	One day the war will be over.	I hope that those who use the bridge in years to come will remember how it was built, and who built it.	Not a gang of slaves, but soldiers.	British soldiers, even in captivity.	-Yes, sir.	-You're a fine doctor but you've a lot to learn about the army.	Hold him!	Hold him!	Use your boot!	Get your boot in there, will you?	Good morning!	What on earth are you people staring at?	Get him with your boot!	I'm sorry l'm late, sir.	Four minutes, to be exact.	You were in need of medical attention?	-Sir?	-I was referring to the nurse.	Very ingenious.	Warden was right.	Sit down.	I asked you here to help us pick the fourth member of your team.	-Ask Mr. Joyce to come in.	-Yes, sir.	Chapman wants Joyce, but I have my doubts.	He has too much imagination as distinct from cold calculation.	I've told you in this job, even when it's finished there's always one more thing to do.	He's the best swimmer in the school.	I'm well aware of your evaluation.	The opinion I want is Shears'.	All right, at ease.	These men are thinking of taking you for a hike in the jungle.	Yes, sir.	You were an accountant in Montreal?	Yes, sir.	Not really an accountant.	That is, I didn't have my charter.	Exactly what did you do?	Well, sir, I just checked columns and columns of figures which people had checked before me and other people checked them after I had checked them.	-Sounds a frightful bore.	-Sir, it was a bore.	How did you wind up here?	ln '39 I came over to London to enlist.	Later I volunteered for this work.	-You volunteered!	-Yes, sir.	See, the regular Army--	Go ahead, you can be frank.	Well, the regular Army reminded me of my job in civilian life.	They don't expect you to think.	Think about this.	Are you sure you'd be able to use it in cold blood?	I know how to use it.	That's not what I meant.	Could you use it in cold blood?	Could you kill without hesitation?	That's a question I've asked myself.	It's worried me quite a bit.	And what was the answer?	I don't honestly know, sir.	I've tried to imagine myself....	I suppose I find it hard to kid myself that killing isn't a crime.	It's an old army problem.	Well, I think that's all.	Thank you, Joyce.	Am I to go with the team?	We'll let you know.	You see what I mean.	Well, at least he was honest.	None of us ever know the answer to that question until the moment arises.	What's your opinion, Shears?
- No, thanks.	- A drink?	- No, thank you.	- A pot of tea for one, Peter.	- Very good, sir.	Do you read this?	I taught Oriental languages at Cambridge before the war.	By the way, I never congratulated you on your escape.	It was a good show.	I was lucky.	If your sea rescue plane hadn't spotted me, I wouldn't be here.	I suppose not.	Would you like to see where you were?	All right.	Our information's rather scanty.	It's mostly based on your report.	But we think the camp is about here.	Do your intelligence people have any idea what happened to Colonel Nicholson?	He had the guts of a maniac.	They were about to shoot him, and he didn't bat an eye.	I suppose if you're about to be shot, there isn't a great deal you can do.	Here is the River Kwai... and here is the Siamese village where you were helped... and here is the railway.	You must be fairly familiar with all this area.	Not really.	I was out of my head half the time.	Now then, the railway starts down here in Singapore.	Malaya, Bangkok, Rangoon.	Their idea is to drive on through into India.	Where was I picked up?	About here.	As you know, thejapanese aim to open the Bangkok-Rangoon section by mid-May.	Naturally, we'll try to prevent them.	Naturally, we'll try to prevent them.	It's too far for bombers to carry an adequate load... so we shall have to go in and smash it up on the ground.	- How will you get there?	- Parachute drop and then march.	- With demolition equipment?	- Yes.	Our chief problem is lack of firsthand knowledge.	None of us have ever been there.	- I don't want to discourage you, but--	- It should be interesting.	Colonel Green has given me the Kwai bridge.	I'm taking a team in and blow it up.	Lucky you.	- Are you sure you won't have tea?	- No, thanks.	I don't want to be rude, but I have a luncheon date, and she's beautiful.	- So if there are any questions--	- Yes, of course.	I am sorry.	There is only one question, actually.	How would you feel about going back?	Come again?	I know under the circumstances it's a bit much... but you do have a unique knowledge for our purpose... and we'd love to have you with us.	You mean to tell me you brought me here to ask me this?	Frankly, yes.	Major, I just got out of there.	My escape was a miracle.	Now you want me to go back?	Don't be ridiculous.	- This is embarrassing.	- I can't go back!	I don't belong to you.	I belong to the American Navy.	Actually, Colonel Green has already taken up the manner with your people.	- With my people?	- Yes, your navy turned you over to us.	A signal arrived yesterday morning from your C in C Pacific... authorizing your temporary transfer of duty to Force 31 6.	- They can't do this to me.	- I'm afraid they have.	It was difficult to know how to break it to you.	They can't do this to me.	My navy's made a mistake.	Look, I'm not a navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	Look, I'm not a navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	The whole thing's a fake.	I'm just an ordinary swab jockey, second class.	When the Houston sunk, I made it ashore with an officer.	Later, we ran into a Japanese patrol, and he was killed.	I figured I would be captured, so--	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	I thought officers would get better treatment in prison camps.	- Very sensible.	- Not that it did me any good.	At Saito's camp, the officers worked along with the rest.	Yes, there's always the unexpected.	I got used to being a commander... so when I arrived here at the hospital...	I looked at the enlisted men's ward and the officers' ward... and I said to myself, " Let's let it ride along for awhile."	There were certain definite advantages.	Yes, I saw one on the beach.	Anyway, that's the whole story.	The point is that you can't use me.	You want an American commander named Shears, and he doesn't exist.	When the Navy brass learns the truth about me, they'll say...	"Ship him home in irons for impersonating an officer!"	Once that happens, I've got it made.	- Got it what?	- " Made."	- I'd like that drink now.	- Of course.	I'll apply for a medical discharge.	I'll say I impersonated an officer because I went crazy in the jungle.	I'm getting worse, you know?	Sometimes I think I'm Admiral Halsey.
I might even take a few potshots at the train.	All clear?	Any questions?	Right.	We'll start as soon as it's dark.	They're sure to have sentries on the bridge... so you'll have to float the stuff down... from upriver... which means building a raft.	Yai will take three women to help you build the raft.	One will stay here with me.	Get cracking.	If it wasn't for my ankle, I'd take Joyce's assignment.	I know.	Do you think he'll be all right?	I think so.	Want me to handle it?	I'd let you stay up here with the mortar if I could.	- I know.	- I'm sorry.	When it's over, I hope you get that medical discharge... and not the hard way.	Thanks.	Load.	- Beautiful.	- Yes, beautiful.	A first-rate job.	I had no idea it would turn out so well.	Yes, a beautiful creation.	I've been thinking.	Tomorrow it will be 28 years to the day that I've been in the service.	Twenty-eight years in peace and war.	I don't suppose I've been at home more than ten months in all that time.	Still, it's been a good life.	I love India.	I wouldn't have had it any other way.	But there are times... when suddenly you realize you're nearer the end than the beginning.	You wonder... you ask yourself... what the sum total of your life represents... what difference your being there at any time made to anything... or if it made any difference at all really.	Particularly in comparison with other men's careers.	I don't know whether that kind of thinking is very healthy... but I must admit I've had some thoughts along those lines... from time to time.	But tonight--	Blast.	I must be off.	The men are preparing some sort of entertainment.	Lovely.	If you were the only	Girl in the world	And you were the only boy	Nothing else would matter	In the world today	We could go on loving	In the same old way	A garden of Eden	Just made for two	I'm sure I speak for all of us when I say... this has been an enjoyable evening.	Most of you move on tomorrow to a new camp and new construction.	It's a pity you won't be here to see the first practical use of the bridge.	However, you'll be glad to know... the completion of this link in the railway... will enable us to transport the sick and the disabled... to the new camp by train.	Colonel Saito has kindly permitted me... to stay behind with Major Clipton and the sick men... and we'll rejoin you in a few days' time.	Now that your work here is finished...	Now that your work here is finished...	I suppose many of you feel somewhat let down.	That's quite understandable.	It's a very natural reaction.	But one day, in a week, a month, a year... or that day when, God willing, we all return to our homes again... you're going to feel very proud... of what you have achieved here... in the face of great adversity.	What you have done should be... and I think will be... an example to all our countrymen... soldier and civilian alike.	You have survived with honor.	That and more... here in the wilderness.	You have turned defeat into victory.	I congratulate you.	Well done.	The King.	You're in business.	You got everything?	Stand, ammunition, pack, canteen, knife?	Yes.	I'll be directly across the river.	The professor says there's always one more thing to do... but I can't think of what it could be... except to wish you a long and happy life.	Thank you.	What's happened?	The river's gone down.	You can see the wire.	The charges.	Don't wait for the train.	Do it now.	If Saito's information is correct... the train should be along in five or ten minutes.	If you don't mind, sir, I'll watch the ceremonies from up on the hill.	Why?	You'll get a better view from the bridge.	It's hard to explain, sir, but I'd rather not be a part of it.	As you please.	Honestly, sometimes I don't understand you at all.	As you once said, sir, I have a lot to learn about the army.	Good morning.	River's gone down in the night.	What's he doing?	Colonel, there's something rather odd going on.	I think we'd better have another look around before that train comes across.	He's gone mad.	He's leading him right to it.	Our own man.	I was right.	There is something going on.	You have to do it, boy.	You have to do it now!	Colonel Saito, have you a knife?	I just realized the bridge has been mined.	" Mined"?	" Mined"?	Good boy.
Come on, follow me.	Ten minutes.	Make sure they're all dead.	Come on, Joyce.	Use your knife, man, or we'll be shooting each other.	Go that way, Joyce.	I could have done it.	I was ready.	Are you hit, sir?	Let's go.	It's superficial.	Maybe a chipped bone, but there's nothing broken.	- It's my fault, sir.	- Oh, shut up, Joyce.	I can walk on it.	That's all that counts.	Yeah, but how far and how fast?	We won't know that till I've tried it, will we?	What are you doing?	I didn't give orders for a halt.	We all need it.	We're still five hours' fast march from the objective.	Maybe six.	Come on.	You keep walking on that foot, you'll bleed to death.	Yeah.	- You're gonna leave me here.	- If you stop, we stop.	You can't study the layout of the bridge after dark.	You've got to get there before sundown.	But, sir, when the job's done, who knows if we can return by this route or whether we could find you if we did?	If you were me, I wouldn't hesitate to leave you and you know that.	He doesn't know it, but I do.	You'd leave your own mother here if the rules called for it.	You'll go on without me.	That's an order.	You're in command now, Shears.	I won't obey that order.	You make me sick with your heroics.	You carry the stench of death like the plague.	Explosives and L pills go well together.	It's one thing or the other.	Destroy a bridge or destroy yourself.	This is just a game, this war.	You and that Colonel Nicholson, you're crazy with courage.	For what?	How to die like a gentleman, how to die by the rules when the only important thing is how to live like a human being!	I'm not gonna leave you here to die, Warden because I don't care about your bridge or about your rules.	If we go on, we go on together.	Good old Yai.	I'm all right.	Come on.	Let's get closer.	Still sorry we brought you along?	- Feeling better?	- Yeah.	You're in command again now, you know.	Thank you, major.	I can't understand it.	It's such a solid, well-designed job.	Not like the bridges the enemy usually throws together.	Look.	Those poor devils down there.	Imagine being forced to build that in the condition they must be in.	They've got a British officer working on his knees.	The Japanese seem to be enjoying it too.	If he knew we were here, it might boost his morale a little.	If not for the train, we could set a time fuse and be miles away.	Since we don't know what time it'll cross tomorrow we'll have to do the job manually.	We'll set the charges against the piles about three feet under the water, I should think and run the main wire downstream to the plunger.	The problem is where to hide it.	Our side of the river is quite obviously used by the Japanese.	They'd spot it at once.	Look.	Do you see those fallen tree trunks?	And the grey rock just below them on that little beach?	- Yes, sir, I see them.	- That's our key position.	It's on the wrong side of the river but it's the only hiding place within feasible distance.	As soon as the bridge goes up whoever's there will have to swim back.	It's not likely to be a pleasant swim.	Sir, I was the best swimmer in my course.	Yeah.	It looks like your line of country, then.	Thank you, sir.	Shears, pick a spot on our side of the bank where you can cover Joyce.	Yai will be with you so you can occupy the Nips...	- ...if they make any trouble for Joyce.	- Right.	On the theory that there's always one more thing I'll set up the mortar here to create an additional diversion.	Perhaps I might even take a few potshots at the train.	All clear?	Any questions?	Right, we'll start as soon as it's dark.	They're sure to have sentries on the bridge so you'll have to float the stuff down from upriver which means building a raft.	Yai.	Yai will take three women to help you build the raft.	One will stay here with me.	All right, now get cracking.	Shears.	You know, if it wasn't for my ankle, I'd take Joyce's assignment.	I know.	You think he'll be all right?	I think so.	Want me to handle it?	I'd let you stay up here with the mortar if I could.	I'm sorry.	When it's over, I hope you get that medical discharge and not the hard way.	Thanks.	Load.	Beautiful.	Yes, beautiful.	A first-rate job.	I had no idea it would turn out so well.	Yes.	A beautiful creation.	I've been thinking.	Tomorrow it will be 28 years to the day that I've been in the service.
- We'll do out best, sir.	- Fine.	We must draw up our plans then arrange a conference with Saito and set him straight.	That takes care of all the procedural matters.	Oh, yes.	The next point is unpleasant for all concerned, I'm afraid.	Sorry to say, the position of the bridge was fixed hastily and, I have to add, incorrectly.	Incorrectly?	Unfortunately, yes.	Our engineer has made a study of the site and decided that the river bottom there is too soft.	Too soft?	Mud!	All the work has been useless.	- Reeves, will you carry on?	- Yes, sir.	Those piles of yours could be hammered below water level before they'd hold.	It would collapse under the first train.	The pressure and soil resistance figures in tons per square inch.	Reeves, before you get too involved...	Colonel, could we have a cup of tea?	I take it we all agree that if we're to avoid disaster we build a new bridge, at the site picked by Reeves, 400 yards downstream.	Let's proceed to the next point.	I decided to alter the work quota of our men.	- Alter?	- I've increased it.	From 1.5 yards of earth moved to two.	I'm sure it will meet with your approval.	Hughes has all the facts.	Would you take over?	I've done a time study of the entire project.	You see, the available forces have been badly distributed.	I'd urge we revise the organization of the working parties.	Just a moment.	Colonel, it would save time if we could work during dinner.	Would it be possible to have dinner?	Of course.	- Carry on.	- Yes, sir.	If we increase the squads and specialize their functions I'm certain the total daily output can be increased by 30%.	Now, Colonel Saito, I have one more point...	Now, there's another important decision that can't be postponed.	As the British will work on the bridge only a few will be available for railway work.	I must ask you to lend us some of your men to reinforce the railway gang so the final stretch of track can be completed as quickly as possible.	I have already given the order.	We must fix the daily work quota for your men.	I thought to set it at 1.5 yards so as not to overtire them but isn't it best to be the same as ours?	That would also create a healthy competitive spirit.	I have already given the order.	We'll try to surpass that, won't we, Hughes?	I think that completes the agenda for tonight.	Thank you, Colonel Saito, for your kind attention.	Are there any other questions?	One question.	Can you finish the bridge in time?	Frankly, the consensus of opinion is that it's impossible.	But we'll certainly give it a go.	Don't forget we wasted a month through an unfortunate disagreement for which I was not to blame.	Is there anything else?	No.	Thank you.	The meeting is closed.	- Good night.	- Good night.	I hope these Japanese appreciate what we're doing for them.	For now I'm not concerned with their appreciation.	- Good night, Clipton.	- Good night, sir.	By the way, I meant to tell you there are trees here similar to elm.	And the elm piles of London Bridge lasted 600 years.	- Six hundred years, Reeves?	- Yes, sir.	Six hundred years.	That would be quite something.	I'm looking for an American named Commander Shears.	- Yes, down on the beach.	- Oh, thank you very much.	Kiss!	Too many eyes.	You give me powders, pills, baths, injections, enemas...	All I need is love.	It's true.	All you really need is love.	Why are you so sure you'll get a medical discharge?	Because I'm a civilian at heart, lover.	And I always follow my heart.	Kiss.	How's that, commander?	Don't call me commander.	It's unromantic.	You're an officer yourself.	How'd you like it if I called you Lieutenant Lover?	Let's be democratic.	Just call me "sir."	Yes, sir.	Brass ahoy.	He wants you.	He's all yours.	- I'm going for a swim.	- Don't leave me!	- Commander Shears?	- Yes.	My name's Warden.	- How do you do?	- Sorry to intrude...	That's okay, major.	I'm used to it.	Like a martini?	That's very kind.	I think not.	Mind if I have one?	How did you get that?	Where there's a hospital, there's alcohol.	Yes, of course.	Jolly good.	Well, I'll be as brief as possible.	I belong to a rather rum group called Force 316.	Our headquarters is in the Botanical Gardens.	- Protecting rare plants from the enemy?	- Not quite.	- Sure you won't have one?	- No, thanks.
Now that your work here is finished...	I suppose many of you feel somewhat let down.	That's quite understandable.	It's a very natural reaction.	But one day, in a week, a month, a year... or that day when, God willing, we all return to our homes again... you're going to feel very proud... of what you have achieved here... in the face of great adversity.	What you have done should be... and I think will be... an example to all our countrymen... soldier and civilian alike.	You have survived with honor.	That and more... here in the wilderness.	You have turned defeat into victory.	I congratulate you.	Well done.	The King.	You're in business.	You got everything?	Stand, ammunition, pack, canteen, knife?	Yes.	I'll be directly across the river.	The professor says there's always one more thing to do... but I can't think of what it could be... except to wish you a long and happy life.	Thank you.	What's happened?	The river's gone down.	You can see the wire.	The charges.	Don't wait for the train.	Do it now.	If Saito's information is correct... the train should be along in five or ten minutes.	If you don't mind, sir, I'll watch the ceremonies from up on the hill.	Why?	You'll get a better view from the bridge.	It's hard to explain, sir, but I'd rather not be a part of it.	As you please.	Honestly, sometimes I don't understand you at all.	As you once said, sir, I have a lot to learn about the army.	Good morning.	River's gone down in the night.	What's he doing?	Colonel, there's something rather odd going on.	I think we'd better have another look around before that train comes across.	He's gone mad.	He's leading him right to it.	Our own man.	I was right.	There is something going on.	You have to do it, boy.	You have to do it now!	Colonel Saito, have you a knife?	I just realized the bridge has been mined.	" Mined"?	" Mined"?	Good boy.	British officer, sir, here to blow up the bridge.	- Blow up the bridge?	- Yes, sir.	British commando orders, sir.	Look out.	There's no time.	Help!	Kill him!	Let me go, sir.	You don't understand, sir.	Kill him!	You?	You!	What have I done?	Madness!	I had to do it.	They might have been captured alive.	It was the only thing to do!	Madness.
I have grave doubts whether your lieutenant--	- What's his name?	- Mioura.	Is he capable of tackling a job of such importance?	On the other hand, my officers Reeves and Hughes... have built bridges all over India.	The men respect them.	It's essential for an officer to have that respect.	If he loses it, he ceases to command.	Then there's demoralization and chaos.	I would be a poor commander if I allowed that to happen to my men.	Perhaps you are not aware... that the bridge is now under my personal command.	Really?	Are you satisfied with the work?	- I am not!	- You prove my point.	I hate the British!	You are defeated, but you have no shame.	You are stubborn, but have no pride.	You endure, but you have no courage.	- It's pointless going on like this.	- Stay there!	Stand down!	Battalion, attention!	Battalion, stand at ease!	Please.	- Do you know the date today?	- I'm afraid I've lost count.	It's the anniversary of our great victory over Russia in 1 905.	Throughout East Asia, we are celebrating this date.	In honor of this occasion...	I have given your troops a day of rest.	- Many thanks.	- I am declaring a general amnesty.	You and your officers may return to your quarters.	As part of this amnesty... it will not be necessary for officers to do manual labor.	He's done it.	Somebody deserves a medal, sir.	How many men in your party, Corporal?	- I don't really know, sir.	- You don't know?	Twelve usually, but one of the men took sick suddenly this morning... and it took three or four others to help him to the hospital, sir.	He took terrible sick, sir.	A corporal should always know exactly how many men he has under him.	Yes, sir.	Have you a nervous affliction?	If not, stop making those faces.	It may be funny, and I'm sure it's done with the best motives... but it's not military behavior.	No, sir.	We must put a stop to these demonstrations.	Yes, sir.	- Reeves.	- Yes, sir?	Have you ever constructed a bridge across a stream like the Kwai?	Yes, sir.	Half a dozen of them in Madras, Bengal.	If this were your bridge, how would you get it underway?	Get it underway, sir?	First of all, I wouldn't build it here.	- Why not?	- As I was trying to tell you, sir... thejapanese couldn't have picked a worse location.	There's no bottom.	You see those piles?	They're sinking.	Our chaps could drive those logs till doomsday and they wouldn't hold.	Where would you build it?	Further downstream, sir, across those narrows.	Then we'd have solid bedrock on both banks.	Hughes, if this were your bridge, how would you use the men?	Not the way they're doing it.	It's utter chaos, as you can see.	It's a lot of uncoordinated activity;	no teamwork.	Some parties are actually working against each other.	Yes.	I tell you, gentlemen, we have a problem on our hands.	Thanks to thejapanese, we now command a rabble.	There's no order, no discipline.	- Our task is to rebuild the battalion.	- Yes, sir.	It won't be easy, but we have the means at hand.	- The bridge.	- "The bridge," sir?	We can teach these barbarians a lesson in Western methods and efficiency... that will put them to shame.	We'll show them what the British soldier is capable of doing.	Yes, I see your point, sir.	It's going to be difficult in this godforsaken place... where you can't find what you need.	- But there's the challenge.	- I beg your pardon, sir.	You mean you really want them to build a bridge?	You're not so usually slow on the uptake, Evans.	I know our men.	You've got to keep them occupied.	If there weren't any work for them to do, we'd invent some.	- That we would, sir.	- So we're lucky.	But it will be a proper bridge.	Here again, I know the men.	It's essential that they should take pride in their job.	- Right, gentlemen?	- Yes, sir.	Reeves, you're the key man in this situation as engineer.	Tell me what you want, and Hughes and I will organize it.	- Can we make a go of it?	- We'll do our best, sir.	Fine.	We must draw up our plans... then arrange a conference with Saito... and set him straight.	I think that takes care of all the procedural matters.	Now-	- Oh, yes.	The next point is somewhat unpleasant for all concerned.	We feel the position of the bridge was fixed rather hastily... and incorrectly.	Unfortunately, yes.
The opinion I want is Shears'.	All right, at ease.	These men are thinking of taking you for a hike in the jungle.	Yes, sir.	You were an accountant in Montreal?	Yes, sir.	Not really an accountant.	That is, I didn't have my charter.	Exactly what did you do?	Well, sir, I just checked columns and columns of figures which people had checked before me and other people checked them after I had checked them.	- Sounds a frightful bore.	- Sir, it was a bore.	How did you wind up here?	In '39 I came over to London to enlist.	Later I volunteered for this work.	- You volunteered!	- Yes, sir.	See, the regular Army...	Go ahead, you can be frank.	Well, the regular Army reminded me of my job in civilian life.	They don't expect you to think.	Think about this.	Are you sure you'd be able to use it in cold blood?	I know how to use it.	That's not what I meant.	Could you use it in cold blood?	Could you kill without hesitation?	That's a question I've asked myself.	It's worried me quite a bit.	And what was the answer?	I don't honestly know, sir.	I've tried to imagine myself...	I suppose I find it hard to kid myself that killing isn't a crime.	It's an old army problem.	Well, I think that's all.	Thank you, Joyce.	Am I to go with the team?	We'll let you know.	You see what I mean.	Well, at least he was honest.	None of us ever know the answer to that question until the moment arises.	What's your opinion, Shears?	Well, he's Canadian.	That fits with the international composition of this outfit.	If he wants to go, he can take my place!	Well, if you're all agreed on Joyce, he's yours.	I had an air reconnaissance report on the village.	There's enough clearing to make your jump at dusk.	- You've had parachute training?	- No, sir.	Blast!	This is awkward.	Silly, it never occurred to me!	Well, maybe...	He's right.	Arrange some practice jumps for him.	I'll go check right away.	- All right, Chapman, you can run along.	- Yes, sir.	Well, feel like a sniff of air?	Yes, sir.	You don't realize what a plum you are.	Your knowledge of the area, making friends in that village.	It's almost as if your whole escape had been planned with us in mind.	By the way, here's something that'll interest you.	The new "L" pill.	- L pill?	- L for lethal.	Instant, painless.	Much better than the old ones.	For capture, of course.	You're telling me not to be taken alive.	I wouldn't recommend it.	If any of you get hurt or wounded the others will have to leave him behind.	The objective comes first in our work.	You want my honest evaluation?	I didn't want to say in front of them.	I understand, go ahead.	Well, Chapman will be fine.	Ice water in his veins.	Joyce is...	He'll be okay.	- It's Warden I don't get.	- Oh?	Why not?	Cambridge don and all of that.	It's one thing to play with explosives like a kid with firecrackers...	He's not without experience, you know.	When Singapore fell, he stayed behind to blow up a couple of bridges.	Many other installations before the Japs caught him.	- Fascinating story.	He...	- Sir, it's most annoying.	In view of time, they don't think practice jumps would be worth it.	If you make one jump there's only a 50% chance of injury.	Two jumps, 80%.	Three jumps, you're bound to get your packet.	The consensus is, the most sensible thing for Shears to do is to go ahead and jump and hope for the best.	With or without parachute?	Oh, very good!	With or without!	He's in the trees!	Yai says we can't reach the Kwai your way.	There are too many Japanese patrols.	We'll swing north through heavy jungle.	- Then who's going to lead?	- Yai.	He hates the Japanese.	They took all his men.	Which means we shall have to use women bearers.	- Women bearers!	- They're capable.	He says it's dangerous to spend the night here.	There's an enemy post three miles away so we'll have to sleep in the jungle.	- What about Chapman?	- Yai will bury him and his chute.	Is there something wrong?	I was just thinking.	You speak Yai's language.	I don't.	He's going to lead you to the river by a route I never took.	Will someone tell me why I'm so indispensable to this outfit?	I know how you feel, but there's always the unexpected, isn't there?	Tell that to Chapman.	Let's get cracking!	You're lovely.	Lovely.	Be happy in your work!	Yes, sir.
Believe me, he's really going to do it.	One.	I warn you, Colonel Saito.	Two.	Stop!	Colonel Saito, I've seen and heard everything.	So has every man in the hospital.	There are too many witnesses.	You can't call it a mass escape.	Most of those men can't walk.	Is this your soldier's code?	Murdering unarmed men?	You see, Jennings, there are certain advantages to being on the sick list.	I'll say this for the old man.	He's got guts.	"Into the valley of death rode the 600."	How's that, sir?	That kind of guts.	Also the kind they had in 1 914 when officers fought with only a swagger stick.	-l see what you mean.	-You don't see what I mean at all.	The kind of guts that can get us all killed.	Excuse me, sir, I'd like to go along too.	Arm's almost healed, sir, really it is.	What about him?	He didn't order us not to escape, he suggested.	Listen, when a man like your colonel suggests something, it's an order.	Here we go again.	Colonel Saito says all officers to punishment hut.	Tell them to go.	Not you.	Come.	Leave him alone!	They're gonna put him in the oven.	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	And so say all of us And so say all of us	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	Timber!	One, two, three, four.	No, no, no!	Let go!	You wish to see me?	I've been trying to see you for three days.	It's about Colonel Nicholson.	He's been shut up in that hut--	I could have you shot.	Those prisoners who tried to escape, they were in your charge.	I knew nothing about the escape.	It does not matter.	One must even respect those who tried.	For a brief moment, between escape and death they were soldiers again.	But it is insane to try and escape.	Two soldiers shot, the third drowned.	To what end?	It was an escape from reality.	There is your reality.	This shows the position work should have reached by noon today.	And this shows the position of actual progress.	Because of your colonel's stubbornness we are far behind schedule.	That is not all.	Enlisted prisoners sabotaged the work.	Yes, I have seen it.	I could have them all shot.	Then who would build your bridge?	Besides, are you sure it's sabotage?	Perhaps the men don't work well without their own officers.	My officers will direct them.	Your officers will work beside them.	That's for Colonel Nicholson to decide.	As he said, it's against the rules.	Do not speak to me of rules.	This is war!	This is not a game of cricket.	He's mad, your colonel quite mad.	Sit down, please.	I have decided to allow you one visit to your colonel.	Thank you.	Tell him that if his officers will not work I'll be forced to close the hospital and your patients will work in their place.	And many will die, and he will be responsible.	Go and speak to him.	You have five minutes.	Hey, the doc's going to see the old man.	Sir....	It's Clipton, sir.	I brought you a few things.	-How are the men?	-Fine, sir, fine.	We scraped together a little meat and a coconut.	And the officers?	Oh, they're not so good.	They're still in detention.	And Lieutenant Jennings....	Jennings is dead.	-What?	-Killed, attempting to escape.	Also two others, Corporal Weaver and the American.	Jennings.	Poor, brave lad.	I warned him, didn't I, Clipton?	Look, sir, we haven't much time.	I'm going to clean you up a little while I talk.	I've got something to tell you.	I've just had a word with Saito.	That man is the worst commanding officer I've ever come across.	Actually, I think he's mad.	Carry on.	Blackmail.	I know, sir, but he means it.	I'm sure he does.	It's a question of face, pure and simple.	And he can't give in.	It's still blackmail.	Sir, you can't stand much more of this.	Wouldn't the officers be better off working than suffocating in that hole?	The men are doing a wonderful job.	They're going as slow as they dare.	But Saito's cut their food rations and if he makes the sick men work....	Well, they're going to die.	That's all there is to it.	Yes, Clipton, I understand.	Truly.	But don't you see?	It's a matter of principle.	If we give in now, there'll be no end to it.	No.	Sir, we're lost in the jungle, a thousand miles from anywhere.	We're under the heel of a man who'll stop at nothing to get his way.
"Belligerents may employ prisoners of war who are fit, other than officers..."	Give me the book.	By all means.	You read English, I take it?	- Do you read Japanese?	- I'm sorry, no.	If it's a matter of translation, I'm sure it can be arranged.	You see, the Code states that...	Stand fast in the ranks.	You speak to me of Code?	What "Code"?	The coward's code!	What do you know of the soldier's code?	Of bushido?	Nothing!	You are unworthy of command!	If you refuse to abide by the laws of the civilized world we must consider ourselves absolved from our duty to obey you.	My officers will not do manual labour.	We shall see.	All enlisted prisoners to work.	Sergeant Major!	Take the men to work.	Battalion, take up tools.	Move to the left in columnar route.	Left turn!	"A" Company, by the right, quick march.	Eyes right.	Eyes right.	Eyes front.	Quick march, eyes right.	"C" Company, by the right.	What's he up to?	Looks like he doesn't want any witnesses.	Now, you will be reasonable.	You will order your officers to work.	No.	I will count three.	If by the third count you and your officers are not on the way to work I will give the order to fire.	He's going to do it.	Believe me, he's really going to do it.	One.	I warn you, Colonel...	Two.	Stop!	Colonel Saito, I've seen and heard everything.	So has every man in the hospital.	They're too many witnesses.	You can't call it a mass escape.	Most of those men can't walk.	Is this your soldier's code?	Murdering unarmed men?	You see, Jennings, there are advantages to being on the sick list.	I'll say this for the old man.	He's got guts.	"Into the valley of death rode the 600."	How's that, sir?	That kind of guts.	Also the kind they had in 1914 when officers fought with only a swagger stick.	- I see what you mean.	- You don't see what I mean at all.	The kind of guts that can get us all killed.	Excuse me, sir, I'd like to go along too.	Arm's almost healed, sir, really it is.	What about him?	He didn't order us not to escape, he suggested.	Listen, when a man like your colonel suggests something, it's an order.	Here we go again.	Colonel Saito says all officers to punishment hut.	Tell them to go.	Not you.	Come.	Leave him alone!	Leave him alone!	They're going to put him in the oven.	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	And so say all of us And so say all of us	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	Timber!	One, two, three, four.	One, two, three, four.	No, no, no!	Let go!	Let go!	You wish to see me?	I've tried to see you for three days.	It's about the colonel.	He's been shut up in that hut...	I could have you shot.	Those prisoners who tried to escape, they were in your charge.	I knew nothing about the escape.	It does not matter.	One must respect those who tried.	For a brief moment, between escape and death they were soldiers again.	But it is insane to try and escape.	Two soldiers shot and the third drowned.	To what end?	It was an escape from reality.	There is your reality.	This shows the position work should have reached by noon today.	And this shows the position of actual progress.	Because of your colonel's stubbornness, we are far behind schedule.	That is not all.	Enlisted prisoners sabotaged the work.	Yes, I have seen it.	I could have them all shot.	Then who would build your bridge?	Besides, are you sure it's sabotage?	The men don't work well without their own officers.	My officers will direct them.	Your officers will work beside them.	That's for Nicholson to decide.	As he said, it's against the rules.	Do not speak to me of rules.	This is war!	This is not a game of cricket.	He's mad, your colonel quite mad.	Sit down, please.	I have decided to allow you one visit to your colonel.	Thank you.	Tell him that if his officers will not work I'll be forced to close the hospital and your patients will work in their place.	Many will die, and he will be responsible.	Go and speak to him.	You have five minutes.	Doc's going to see the old man.	Sir...	It's Clipton, sir.	I brought you a few things.	- How are the men?	- Fine, sir, fine.	We scraped together a little meat and a coconut.	And the officers?	Not so good.	They're still in detention.
I was not a good artist.	My father disapproved.	He felt I belonged in the army.	So I changed from art to engineering.	I must tell you, Colonel Saito.	I intend to make a full report of your activities.	I do not think you quite realize my position.	- I must carry out my orders.	- Oh, quite, quite.	My orders are to complete the bridge by the 12th day of May.	- I have only 12 weeks more.	- No doubt.	Therefore, I am compelled to use all available personnel.	No officers, except for administration.	But officers are working along the entire railway.	You know it.	I know it.	I'm not responsible for other officers.	Personally, I'm appalled.	Let's not get excited.	Will you have a cigar?	No.	Thank you.	When I said all officers must work naturally, I never meant you, the commanding officer.	My orders were only intended for officers below...	No officers will do manual labour.	Please!	I was about to say:	I've thought the matter over and have decided to put majors and above on administrative duties leaving only junior officers to work.	No.	The Convention's quite clear on that point.	Do you know what will happen to me if the bridge is not ready in time?	I haven't the foggiest.	I'd have to kill myself.	What would you do if you were me?	I suppose if I were you I'd have to kill myself.	Cheers.	I warn you, colonel if I am to die, others will die before me.	Do you understand?	Clipton did mention that.	That won't solve your problem.	I'm sure we can arrive at a solution.	Please sit down.	Now.	Tell me, colonel do you agree that the first job of an officer is command?	- Of course.	- Good.	Now.	Take this bridge of yours.	It's quite an enormous undertaking.	Frankly, I doubt whether your Lieutenant what's-his-name...	Miura.	...is capable of tackling a job of such importance.	On the other hand, I have officers, Reeves and Hughes for instance who have built bridges all over India.	The men respect them.	It's essential for an officer to have that respect.	If it's gone, he ceases to command.	What then?	Demoralization and chaos.	A poor commander I would be if I allowed that to happen.	Perhaps you are not aware that the bridge is now under my command.	Really?	And may I ask, are you satisfied with the work?	- I am not!	- You've proved my point.	I hate the British!	You are defeated but you have no shame.	You are stubborn but have no pride.	You endure but you have no courage.	I hate the British!	Pointless, going on like this.	Stay there!	Stand down.	Stand down!	Battalion, attention!	Battalion, stand at ease.	Please...	Do you know what is the date today, colonel?	I've lost count.	It's the anniversary of our great victory over Russia in 1905.	Throughout East Asia we are celebrating this date.	In honour of this occasión I have given your troops a day of rest.	Many thanks.	I am declaring a general amnesty.	You and your officers may return to your quarters.	As part of this amnesty it will not be necessary for officers to do manual labour.	He's done it!	Somebody deserves a medal, sir.	How many men in your party?	I don't really know, sir.	- You don't know?	- Twelve, usually.	One of the men took sick this morning, sir.	It took three or four to help him to the hospital.	And...	He took terrible sick, sir.	A corporal should know how many men he has under him.	Oh, yes, sir.	Have you a nervous affliction?	Stop making those faces.	It may be funny to you, but it's not military behaviour.	No, sir.	We must put a stop to these demonstrations.	- I say, Reeves?	- Yes, sir?	Ever built a bridge over a stream like the Kwai?	Yes, sir, half a dozen of them in Madras, Bengal...	If this were your bridge how would you get it under way?	Get it under way, sir?	First of all, I wouldn't build it here.	Oh, why not?	I was trying to tell you the Japanese couldn't have picked a worse location.	You see those piles?	They're sinking.	We could drive those logs forever and they wouldn't hold.	Where would you build it?	Further downstream, sir.	Across those narrows.	Then we'd have solid bedrock on both banks.	Hughes, if this were your bridge, how would you use the men?	Not the way they're doing it.	It's chaos, as you can see.	Uncoordinated activity.	No teamwork.	Some parties are working against each other.	Yes.	I say, gentlemen, we have a problem on our hands.
Believe me, he's really going to do it.	One.	I warn you, Colonel...	Two.	Stop!	Colonel Saito, I've seen and heard everything.	So has every man in the hospital.	They're too many witnesses.	You can't call it a mass escape.	Most of those men can't walk.	Is this your soldier's code?	Murdering unarmed men?	You see, Jennings, there are advantages to being on the sick list.	I'll say this for the old man.	He's got guts.	"Into the valley of death rode the 600."	How's that, sir?	That kind of guts.	Also the kind they had in 1914 when officers fought with only a swagger stick.	- I see what you mean.	- You don't see what I mean at all.	The kind of guts that can get us all killed.	Excuse me, sir, I'd like to go along too.	Arm's almost healed, sir, really it is.	What about him?	He didn't order us not to escape, he suggested.	Listen, when a man like your colonel suggests something, it's an order.	Here we go again.	Colonel Saito says all officers to punishment hut.	Tell them to go.	Not you.	Come.	Leave him alone!	Leave him alone!	They're going to put him in the oven.	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	And so say all of us And so say all of us	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	Timber!	One, two, three, four.	One, two, three, four.	No, no, no!	Let go!	Let go!	You wish to see me?	I've tried to see you for three days.	It's about the colonel.	He's been shut up in that hut...	I could have you shot.	Those prisoners who tried to escape, they were in your charge.	I knew nothing about the escape.	It does not matter.	One must respect those who tried.	For a brief moment, between escape and death they were soldiers again.	But it is insane to try and escape.	Two soldiers shot and the third drowned.	To what end?	It was an escape from reality.	There is your reality.	This shows the position work should have reached by noon today.	And this shows the position of actual progress.	Because of your colonel's stubbornness, we are far behind schedule.	That is not all.	Enlisted prisoners sabotaged the work.	Yes, I have seen it.	I could have them all shot.	Then who would build your bridge?	Besides, are you sure it's sabotage?	The men don't work well without their own officers.	My officers will direct them.	Your officers will work beside them.	That's for Nicholson to decide.	As he said, it's against the rules.	Do not speak to me of rules.	This is war!	This is not a game of cricket.	He's mad, your colonel quite mad.	Sit down, please.	I have decided to allow you one visit to your colonel.	Thank you.	Tell him that if his officers will not work I'll be forced to close the hospital and your patients will work in their place.	Many will die, and he will be responsible.	Go and speak to him.	You have five minutes.	Doc's going to see the old man.	Sir...	It's Clipton, sir.	I brought you a few things.	- How are the men?	- Fine, sir, fine.	We scraped together a little meat and a coconut.	And the officers?	Not so good.	They're still in detention.	And Lieutenant Jennings...	Jennings is dead.	- What?	- Killed, attempting to escape.	Also two others, Corporal Weaver and the American.	Jennings.	Poor, brave lad.	I warned him, didn't I, Clipton?	Look, sir, we haven't much time.	I'm going to clean you up a little while I talk.	I've got something to tell you.	I've just had a word with Saito.	That man is the worst commanding officer I've ever come across.	Actually, I think he's mad.	Carry on.	Blackmail!	I know, sir, but he means it.	I'm sure he does.	It's a question of face, pure and simple.	And he can't give in.	It's still blackmail.	Sir, you can't stand much more of this.	Wouldn't the officers be better off working than suffocating in that hole?	The men are doing a wonderful job.	They're going as slow as they dare.	But Saito's cut their food rations and if he makes the sick men work...	Well, they're going to die.	That's all there is to it.	Yes, Clipton, I understand.	Truly.	But don't you see?	It's a matter of principle.	If we give in now, there'll be no end to it.	No.	Sir, we're lost in the jungle, a thousand miles from anywhere.	We're under a man who'll stop at nothing to get his way.
Now, Colonel Saito, I have one more point....	Now, there's another important decision that can't be postponed.	As the British will work on the bridge only a few will be available for railway work.	I must ask you to lend us some of your men to reinforce the railway gang so the final stretch of track can be completed as quickly as possible.	I have already given the order.	We must fix the daily work quota for your men.	I thought to set it at 1 .5 yards so as not to overtire them but isn't it best to be the same as ours?	That would also create a healthy competitive spirit.	I have already given the order.	We'll try to surpass that, won't we, Hughes?	I think that completes the agenda for tonight.	Thank you, Colonel Saito, for your kind attention.	Are there any other questions?	One question.	Can you finish the bridge in time?	Frankly, the consensus of opinion is that it's impossible.	But we'll certainly give it a go.	Don't forget we wasted a month through an unfortunate disagreement for which I was not to blame.	Is there anything else?	No.	Thank you.	The meeting is closed.	-Good night.	-Good night.	I hope these Japanese appreciate what we're doing for them.	For now I'm not concerned with their appreciation.	-Good night, Clipton.	-Good night, sir.	By the way, I meant to tell you there are trees here similar to elm.	And the elm piles of London Bridge lasted 600 years.	-Six hundred years, Reeves?	-Yes, sir.	Six hundred years.	That would be quite something.	I'm looking for an American named Commander Shears.	-Yes, down on the beach.	-Oh, thank you very much.	Kiss!	Too many eyes.	You give me powders, pills, baths, injections, enemas....	All I need is love.	It's true.	All you really need is love.	Why are you so sure you'll get a medical discharge?	Because I'm a civilian at heart, lover.	And I always follow my heart.	Kiss.	How's that, commander?	Don't call me commander.	It's unromantic.	You're an officer yourself.	How'd you like it if I called you Lieutenant Lover?	Let's be democratic.	Just call me "sir."	Yes, sir.	Brass ahoy.	He wants you.	He's all yours.	-I'm going for a swim.	-Don't leave me!	-Commander Shears?	-Yes.	My name's Warden.	-How do you do?	-Sorry to intrude--	That's okay, major.	I'm used to it.	Like a martini?	That's very kind.	I think not.	Mind if I have one?	How did you get that?	Where there's a hospital, there's alcohol.	Yes, of course.	Jolly good.	Well, I'll be as brief as possible.	I belong to a rather rum group called Force 316.	Our headquarters is in the Botanical Gardens.	-Protecting rare plants from the enemy?	-Not quite.	-Sure you won't have one?	-No, thanks.	We have an interest in that railway you worked on.	You could give us no end of valuable information.	Well, I'm leaving for the States in a few days and I told your people everything I know.	But you could help us in a rather special sense.	I know it's a terrible imposition, but could you possibly come out and see us?	If you want to go over the whole thing again.	Very kind.	Lord Louis'll be grateful.	-Who?	-Mountbatten.	We're one of his special pigeons.	Shall we say this evening, then?	About 8.	I'll send a car.	This evening?	Out of the question.	Tomorrow morning then?	About 1 0?	-Okay, 1 0:00.	-Thanks very much.	-Cheerio.	-Cheerio.	Good luck.	Thanks.	You're sorry, but you're going to stand me up tonight.	You couldn't be more wrong.	General salute!	Present arms!	-May I see your pass, please?	-Oh, yes.	Major Warden's bungalow is at the end of the path.	Good show, Jenkins.	Good show!	Come along, Thomson.	Use your knife, man.	On your feet!	Away to the debriefing room.	Come on, move yourselves!	Move quickly!	Very clumsy, Joyce, very clumsy.	Always use your knife immediately, Joyce.	You see, he's gained the initiative.	Wait a minute!	I'm terribly sorry, sir.	-You're sorry?	-So am I.	-l thought you were the enemy.	-I'm American, if that's what you mean.	-That'll be all, Joyce.	-Yes, sir.	Sorry, sir.	-What can I do for you?	-I'm going to see Major Warden.	I'll show you the way.	He'll finish his lecture any moment now.	-That's the end of his lecture.	-Thunderous ovation.	He believes in keeping our training as close to real life as possible.	-Major Warden, sir?	-Yes?	Good of you to come.	-They took care of you?
Let us ask the question why does the bridge not progress?	You know why, because your officers are lazy!	They think themselves too good to share your burden.	This is not just.	Therefore, you are not happy in your work.	Therefore, the bridge does not progress.	But there is another cause.	I do not hide the truth.	With deep shame and regret I admit to you the failure of a member of the Japanese staff.	I refer to Lieutenant Miura.	He is a bad engineer.	He is unworthy of command.	Therefore, I have removed him from his post.	Tomorrow we begin again.	I shall be in personal command.	Today we rest.	All work and no play make Jack a dull boy.	As token of regard for your efforts in the future I give presents to you all.	Let us be happy in our work.	Company, dismissed.	Battalion, dismissed.	Hey, take a look at this.	Red Cross!	He's given us our--	Hey, he's given us our own Red Cross parcels.	"Tomorrow we begin again."	Hey, Harry, look.	They're letting the old man out.	Most likely gonna give him another pasting.	Good evening, colonel.	Do you mind sitting over here?	I am having rather a late supper.	English corned beef.	No, thank you.	Produce of Scotland.	I prefer it to sake.	I spent three years in London, you know.	I studied at the London Polytechnic.	Cheers.	Sorry.	Later, perhaps?	Perhaps.	I was not a good artist.	My father disapproved.	He felt I belonged in the army.	So I changed from art to engineering.	I must tell you, Colonel Saito.	I intend to make a full report of your activities in this camp.	I do not think you quite realise my position.	-l must carry out my orders.	-Oh, quite, quite.	My orders are to complete the bridge by the 1 2th day of May.	-l have only 1 2 weeks more.	-No doubt.	Therefore, I am compelled to use all available personnel.	But no officers, except in an administrative capacity.	But officers are working along the entire railway.	You know it. I know it.	I'm not responsible for the actions of other officers.	Personally, I'm appalled.	Let's not get excited.	Will you have a cigar?	No.	Thank you.	When I said all officers must work naturally, I never meant you, the commanding officer.	My orders were only intended for officers below--	None of my officers will do manual labour.	Please!	I was about to say:	I've been thinking the matter over and have decided to put majors and above on administrative duties leaving only junior officers to lend a hand.	I'm afraid not.	The Convention's quite clear on that point.	Do you know what will happen to me if the bridge is not ready in time?	I haven't the foggiest.	I'd have to kill myself.	What would you do if you were me?	I suppose if I were you I'd have to kill myself.	Cheers.	I warn you, colonel if I am to die, others will die before me.	Do you understand that?	-Major Clipton did mention that.	-Well?	That won't solve your problem.	But I'm sure we can arrive at a proper solution.	Please sit down.	Now, tell me, colonel do you agree that the first job of an officer is command?	-Of course.	-Good.	Now....	Take this bridge of yours.	It's quite an enormous undertaking.	Frankly, I have grave doubts whether your lieutenant-	- What's his name?	-Miura.	-Miura.	--is capable of tackling a job of such importance.	On the other hand, I have officers, Reeves and Hughes for instance who have built bridges all over India.	The men respect them.	It's essential for an officer to have that respect, I'm sure you agree.	If he loses it, he ceases to command.	And what happens then?	Demoralization and chaos.	A pretty poor commander I would be if I allowed that to happen.	Perhaps you are not aware that the bridge is now under my personal command.	Really?	And may I ask, are you satisfied with the work?	-l am not!	-You've proved my point.	I hate the British!	You are defeated but you have no shame.	You are stubborn but have no pride.	You endure but you have no courage.	I hate the British!	Pointless, going on like this.	Stay there!	Stand down.	Stand down!	Battalion, attention!	Battalion, stand at ease.	Please....	Do you know what is the date today, colonel?	I'm afraid I've lost count.	It's the anniversary of our great victory...	-...over Russia in 1 905.	-Oh, yes.	Throughout East Asia we are celebrating this date.	In honour of this occasion I have given your troops a day of rest.
SIR ?	I WAS REFERRING TO THE NURSE.	OH.	OH, YES.	VERY INGENIOUS.	WARDEN WAS RIGHT.	SIT DOWN.	[ Bell Dings ]	THE REASON I ASKED YOU HERE WAS TO HELP US PICK THE FOURTH MEMBER OF YOUR TEAM.	ASK MR. JOYCE TO COME IN.	SIR.	CHAPMAN HERE WANTS JOYCE, BUT I HAVE MY DOUBTS ABOUT HIM.	I THINK HE HAS TOO MUCH IMAGINATION AS DISTINCT FROM COLD CALCULATION.	AS I'VE TOLD YOU BEFORE, IN A JOB LIKE YOURS, EVEN WHEN IT'S FINISHED,	THERE'S ALWAYS ONE MORE THING TO DO.	HE'S THE BEST SWIMMER IN THE SCHOOL, AND WE'LL NEED A GOOD SWIMMER.	I'M WELL AWARE OF YOUR EVALUATION, CHAPMAN.	THE OPINION I WANT IS SHEARS'.	ALL RIGHT.	AT EASE.	THESE GENTLEMEN ARE THINKING OF TAKING YOU FOR A LITTLE HIKE INTO THE JUNGLE.	YES, SIR.	YOU WERE AN ACCOUNTANT IN MONTREAL.	YES, SIR.	NOT REALLY AN ACCOUNTANT, SIR.	THAT IS, I DIDN'T HAVE MY CHARTER.	YEAH ?	EXACTLY WHAT DID YOU DO THEN ?	WELL, SIR, I JUST CHECKED COLUMNS AND COLUMNS OF FIGURES...	WHICH THREE OR FOUR PEOPLE HAD CHECKED BEFORE ME.	AND THEN THERE WERE OTHER PEOPLE WHO CHECKED THEM AFTER I HAD CHECKED THEM.	- SOUNDS A FRIGHTFUL BORE.	- SIR, IT WAS A FRIGHTFUL BORE.	HOW DID YOU WIND UP HERE ?	IN '39, I CAME TO LONDON TO ENLIST,	AND ABOUT TWO YEARS LATER, I VOLUNTEERED FOR THIS WORK.	YOU VOLUNTEERED ?	YES, SIR.	YOU SEE, THE REGULAR ARMY--	ALL RIGHT.	GO AHEAD.	YOU CAN BE FRANK.	WELL, SIR, THE REGULAR ARMY SORT OF REMINDED ME OF MY JOB IN CIVILIAN LIFE.	THEY DON'T EXPECT YOU TO THINK.	THINK ABOUT THIS.	ARE YOU QUITE SURE YOU'D BE ABLE TO USE THIS IN COLD BLOOD ?	- I KNOW HOW TO USE IT, SIR.	- THAT'S NOT WHAT I MEANT.	COULD YOU USE IT IN COLD BLOOD ?	COULD YOU KILL WITHOUT HESITATION ?	THAT'S A QUESTION I'VE OFTEN ASKED MYSELF, SIR.	IT'S WORRIED ME QUITE A BIT.	WHAT WAS THE ANSWER ?	I DON'T HONESTLY KNOW, SIR.	I'VE TRIED TO IMAGINE MYSELF--	ISUPPOSEIFINDITHARD TOKIDMYSELFTHATKILLING ISN'TA CRIME.	IT'S AN OLD ARMY PROBLEM.	WELL, I THINK THAT'S ALL.	THANK YOU, JOYCE.	-AM I TO GO WITH THE TEAM, SIR ?	-WE'LL LET YOU KNOW.	NOW, YOU SEE WHAT I MEAN.	WELL, AT LEAST HE WAS HONEST ABOUT IT, SIR.	NONE OF US KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION UNTIL THE MOMENT ARISES.	WHAT'S YOUR OPINION ?	WELL, SIR, HE'S CANADIAN,	AND THAT'S IN KEEPING WITH THE INTERNATIONAL COMPOSITION OF THIS OUTFIT.	IF HE WANTS TO GO THAT BAD, HE CAN EVEN TAKE MY PLACE.	WELL, IF YOU'RE ALL AGREED ON JOYCE, HE'S YOURS.	NOW THEN.	I HAVE A REPORT FROM AIR RECONNAISSANCE ON THAT VILLAGE.	THERE'S SUFFICIENT CLEARING TO MAKE YOUR JUMP AT LAST LIGHT.	YOU'VE HAD PARACHUTE TRAINING, OF COURSE ?	NO, SIR.	BLAST.	THIS IS AWKWARD.	SILLY, IT NEVER OCCURRED TO ME.	WELL, IN THAT CASE--	THE MAJOR'S RIGHT.	WE'D BETTER ARRANGE SOME PRACTICE JUMPS FOR HIM IMMEDIATELY.	I'LL CHECK WITH FREDDY RIGHT AWAY.	ALL RIGHT, CHAPMAN.	YOU CAN RUN ALONG.	YES, SIR.	WELL, THEN.	FEEL LIKE A SNIFF OF AIR ?	YES, SIR.	YOU DON'T REALIZE WHAT A PLUM YOU ARE FOR US.	YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE AREA, YOUR MAKING FRIENDS IN THAT VILLAGE.	IT'S ALMOST AS IF YOUR WHOLE ESCAPE HAD BEEN PLANNED WITH US IN MIND.	BY THE WAY, HERE'S SOMETHING THAT'LL INTEREST YOU.	THE NEW L PILL.	"L PILL" ?	"L" FOR LETHAL.	INSTANTANEOUS, PAINLESS.	MUCH BETTER THAN THE OLD ONES.	FOR CAPTURE, OF COURSE.	IN OTHER WORDS, YOU'RE TELLING ME NOT TO BE TAKEN ALIVE.	I WOULDN'T RECOMMEND IT.	IF ANY OF YOU GET HURT OR WOUNDED ON THE TREK,	THE OTHERS WILL HAVE TO LEAVE HIM BEHIND.	THE OBJECTIVE COMES FIRST IN OUR WORK.	COLONEL, YOU WANT MY HONEST EVALUATION OF THIS TEAM ?	I DIDN'T WANT TO SPEAK OUT IN FRONT OF THE OTHERS.	I UNDERSTAND.	GO AHEAD.	WELL, CHAPMAN WILL BE FINE-- ICE WATER IN HIS VEINS.	JOYCE IS-- HE'LL BE OKAY.	IT'S WARDEN I DON'T GET.	HUH ?	WHY NOT ?	CAMBRIDGE DON AND ALL OF THAT.	YOU KNOW, IT'S ONE THING...	FOR HIM TO PLAY AROUND WITH EXPLOSIVES LIKE A KID WITH FIRECRACKERS, BUT--	HE'S NOT WITHOUT EXPERIENCE, YOU KNOW.	WHEN WE LOST SINGAPORE, HE STAYED BEHIND AND BLEW UP A COUPLE OF BRIDGES,	TWO TRAINS AND I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY OTHER INSTALLATIONS BEFORE THE JAPS CAUGHT HIM.	CAUGHT HIM ?	YES, FASCINATING STORY.	SIR, IT'S MOST ANNOYING.	IN VIEW OF THE TIME ELEMENT, THEY DON'T THINK A FEW PRACTICE JUMPS WOULD BE WORTHWHILE.	NO ?	THEY SAY IF YOU MAKE ONE JUMP,	YOU'VE ONLY GOT 50% CHANCE OF INJURY, TWO JUMPS, 80%...	AND THREE JUMPS, YOU'RE BOUND TO CATCH A BACKACHE.
This is your friendliest enemy reminding you to take it easy and never volunteer for anything.	If we stay, we'II be up to our necks.	-I've got it all decoded, sir.	-Read it!	Yes, sir. "One, original bridge works reported abandoned.	New construction downstream from first site.	Two, enemy intends to open railway with passage of special train Bangkok for Rangoon with troops and V.I.P.	Estimated to arrive target, a.m. 1 3th.	Three, synchronize demolition with passage of train.	Four, good hunting.	Have fun." That's all.	A train and a bridge!	Can we get there in time, sir?	Yai says we're two to three days away.	If we set a faster pace, we could make it before sundown on the 1 2th.	It's worth it for the train.	Oh, by all means.	Good hunting.	Good show.	jolly good fun.	jolly good.	If you hadn't fixed the radio, we wouldn't know about the train.	There's always the unexpected, isn't there?	-half a pint, sir.	-Quinine.	well, we'II complete this later.	-CIipton, we're facing a crisis.	-Yes, sir?	I spoke with Reeves and Hughes.	We can't finish the bridge on time.	We haven't the manpower.	I've asked the officers to help, but that won't do it.	The officers are working?	I explained the situation and they volunteered, but it's not enough.	Why not ask Saito for some men?	This is ours.	We'II make the most of our resources.	That's why I came to talk to you.	The sick list.	There's not a man in this hospital who doesn't belong there.	It's no reflection on you, but there are always a few maIingerers.	Keep an open mind, that's all I ask.	Come along, Iet's see.	Don't move, don't move.	What's wrong with Haskins?	Amoebic dysentery and black water fever.	Temperature of 1 04.	Right.	I see.	And this man?	Leg ulcers.	I may be able to save it if I do more cutting tonight.	Want to send him out to work?	Don't talk rot, CIipton.	That man there?	His arm's infected.	Most of their wounds won't heal properly.	I wonder if fresh air and light duties might do more than being cooped up.	-Light duties?	-It's not our policy to keep a man...	-...just because he scratched his arm.	-Not our policy?	A man may not be on top of his form, but he can still be useful.	Trimmings and finishing jobs.	Stand easy, Baker.	Do you feel up to doing a little light work on the bridge?	-Anything you say, sir.	-Good show.	You?	Nothing difficult.	-I'II try, sir.	-Good man.	Look here, men.	It goes without saying that I'm proud of all of you.	But we're facing a crisis.	For those of you who feel up to it how about lending us a hand?	Fetch and carry, paint here and there?	What do you say?	-Yes, sir.	-Good show.	Come on, follow me.	Ten minutes.	Make sure they're all dead.	Come on, Joyce.	Use your knife or we'II be shooting each other.	Go that way, Joyce.	I couId have done it.	I was ready.	Are you hit, sir?	Let's go.	It's superficial.	Maybe a chipped bone, but nothing broken.	-It's my fault, sir.	-Oh, shut up.	I can walk on it.	That's all that counts.	Yeah, but how far and how fast?	We won't know that till I've tried it, will we?	What are you doing?	I didn't give orders for a halt.	We all need it.	We're still five hours' fast march from the objective.	Maybe six.	Come on.	If you keep walking, you'II bleed to death.	-You're going to leave me here.	-If you stop, we stop.	You can't study the layout of the bridge after dark.	You've got to get there before sundown.	But, sir, when the job's done, who knows if we can return by this route or whether we could find you if we did?	If you were me, I wouldn't hesitate to leave you and you know that.	He doesn't know, but I do.	You'd leave your own mother here if the rules called for it.	You'II go on without me.	That's an order.	You're in command now, Shears.	I won't obey that order.	Your heroics make me sick.	You carry the stench of death like the plague.	explosives and L-piIIs go well together.	It's one thing or the other.	Destroy a bridge or destroy yourself.	This is just a game, this war.	You and that colonel NichoIson.	You're crazy with courage.	For what?	How to die like a gentleman, how to die by the rules when the only important thing is how to live like a human being!	I'm not gonna leave you here to die, Warden because I don't care about your bridge or about your rules.	If we go on, we go on together.
Have fun." That's all, sir.	A train and a bridge!	Yes, sir.	Can we get there in time, sir?	Yai says we're two to three days' march from the Kwai.	If we set a faster pace, we could make it before sundown on the 12th.	It's worth it for the train.	Oh, by all means.	Good hunting.	Good show.	Jolly good fun.	Jolly, jolly good.	If you hadn't fixed the radio, we wouldn't know about the train.	Well, there's always the unexpected, isn't there?	Heave!	Heave!	Heave!	- Half a pint, sir.	- Quinine.	Well, we'll complete this later.	- Clipton, we're facing a crisis.	- Yes, sir?	I spoke with Reeves and Hughes.	We won't finish the bridge on time.	We just haven't the manpower.	I've asked the officers to lend a hand, but even that won't do it.	The officers are going to work?	I explained the situation and they volunteered, but it's not enough.	Why not ask Saito for some of his men?	This is our show.	We must make the most of our resources.	That's what I came to talk to you about.	The sick list.	There's not a man in this hospital who doesn't belong there.	Don't jump to conclusions.	No reflection on you... but there are always a few malingerers.	Be honest.	Keep an open mind is all I ask.	Come along, let's see.	Don't move, don't move.	What's the matter with Haskins?	He's got amoebic dysentery and blackwater fever.	Temperature of 104.	Right.	I see.	And this man?	Leg ulcers.	I may be able to save the leg if I do more cutting tonight.	Really want to send him out to work, sir?	Don't talk rot, Clipton.	- And that man there?	- His arm's infected.	Most of their wounds won't heal properly.	I wonder, in his case, if fresh air and light duties... might do more good than being cooped up.	- Light duties?	- It's not our policy to keep a man...	- Just because he scratched his arm.	- Not our policy?	Well, is it?	A man may not be on top of his form, but he can still make himself useful.	Trimmings and finishing jobs.	Stand easy, Baker.	Tell me, you feel up to doing a little light work on the bridge?	- Anything you say, sir.	- Good show.	What about you?	Nothing difficult.	- I'll try, sir.	- Good man.	Now, look here, men.	It goes without saying I'm proud of all of you.	But we're facing a crisis.	For those of you who feel up to it... how about lending us a hand?	Fetch and carry, paint here and there?	What do you say?	- Yes, sir.	- Good show.	Come on, follow me.	Ten minutes.	Make sure they're all dead.	Come on, Joyce.	Use your knife, man, or we'll be shooting each other.	Go that way, Joyce.	I could have done it.	I was ready.	Are you hit, sir?	Let's go.	It's superficial.	Maybe a chipped bone, but there's nothing broken.	- It's my fault, sir.	- Oh, shut up, Joyce.	I can walk on it.	That's all that counts.	Yeah, but how far and how fast?	We won't know that till I've tried it, will we?	What are you doing?	I didn't give orders for a halt.	We all need it.	We're still five hours' fast march from the objective.	Maybe six.	Come on.	You keep walking on that foot, you'll bleed to death.	Yeah.	- You're gonna leave me here.	- If you stop, we stop.	You can't study the layout of the bridge after dark.	You've got to get there before sundown.	But, sir, when the job's done, who knows if we can return by this route... or whether we could find you if we did?	If you were me, I wouldn't hesitate to leave you and you know that.	He doesn't know it, but I do.	You'd leave your own mother here if the rules called for it.	You'll go on without me.	That's an order.	You're in command now, Shears.	I won't obey that order.	You make me sick with your heroics.	You carry the stench of death like the plague.	Explosives and I pills go well together.	It's one thing or the other.	Destroy a bridge or destroy yourself.	This is just a game, this war.	You and that Colonel Nicholson, you're crazy with courage.	For what?	How to die like a gentleman, how to die by the rules... when the only important thing is how to live like a human being!	I'm not gonna leave you here to die, Warden... because I don't care about your bridge or about your rules.	If we go on, we go on together.	Good old Yai.	I'm all right.	Come on.	Let's get closer.	Still sorry we brought you along?	- Feeling better?	- Yeah.	You're in command again now, you know.	Thank you, major.
Now, you got everything?	Sten, ammunition, pack, canteen, knife.	Yes.	I'll be directly across the river.	The professor says there's always one more thing to do.	I can't think of what it could be.	Except to wish you a long and happy life.	Thank you.	What's happened?	The river's gone down.	You can see the wire.	The charges!	Don't wait for the train.	Do it now!	If Saito is correct, the train should be along in five or 1 0 minutes.	If you don't mind, I'll watch from up on the hill.	Why?	You'll get a better view from the bridge.	It's hard to explain, sir.	I'd rather not be a part of it.	As you please.	Honestly, sometimes I don't understand you at all.	Well, as you once said, sir, I've got a lot to learn about the army.	Good morning.	River's gone down in the night.	What's he doing?	Colonel, there's something rather odd going on.	I think we better have a look around before that train comes across.	He's gone mad.	He's leading him right to it.	Our own man!	I was right.	There is something going on.	You've got to do it, boy.	You've got to do it now.	Colonel, have you a knife?	I've just realised the bridge has been mined.	Mined?	Good boy!	Officer, sir.	British officer.	Here to blow up the bridge.	-Blow up the bridge?	-Yes, sir.	British commando orders.	-Blow up the bridge?	-Yes, sir.	There's no time!	No, no!	Help!	Help!	Kill him!	Kill him!	Let me go, sir!	You don't understand, sir!	Kill him!	Kill him!	Help!	Kill him, Joyce!	Kill him!	You!	What have I done?	Madness.	I had to do it.	I had to do it.	They might have been captured alive.	It was the only thing to do!	Madness.
Thank you, Joyce.	Am I to go with the team, sir?	We'll let you know.	You see what I mean.	Well, at least he was honest.	None of us ever know the answer to that question until the moment arises.	What's your opinion, Shears?	Well, sir, he's Canadian.	And that's in keeping with the international composition of this outfit.	If he wants to go, he can even take my place.	Well, if you're all agreed on Joyce, he's yours.	I had a report from air reconnaissance on that village.	There's sufficient clearing to make your jump at last light.	-You've had parachute training?	-No, sir.	Blast.	This is awkward.	Silly, it never occurred to me.	Well, maybe--	He's right.	Arrange some practice jumps for him.	I'll pop over and check right away.	-All right, Chapman, you can run along.	-Yes, sir.	Well, feel like a sniff of air?	Yes, sir.	You don't realise what a plum you are for us.	Your knowledge of the area, making friends in that village.	It's almost as if your whole escape had been planned with us in mind.	By the way, here's something that'll interest you.	The new L pill.	-L pill?	-L for lethal.	Instantaneous, painless.	Much better than the old ones.	For capture, of course.	You're telling me not to be taken alive.	I wouldn't recommend it.	If any of you get hurt or wounded the others will have to leave him behind.	The objective comes first in our work.	You want my honest evaluation of this team?	I didn't want to speak out in front of them.	I understand, go ahead.	Well, Chapman will be fine.	Ice water in his veins.	Joyce is....	He'll be okay.	-It's Warden I don't get.	-Oh, why not?	Cambridge don and all of that.	It's one thing to play with explosives like a kid with firecrackers--	He's not without experience, you know.	When we lost Singapore, he stayed behind to blow up a couple of bridges.	And many other installations before the Japs caught him.	-Caught him?	-Yes.	-Fascinating story.	He--	-Sir, it's most annoying.	In view of time, they don't think practice jumps would be worthwhile.	-No?	-lf you make one jump you've only got 50 percent chance of injury.	Two jumps, 80 percent.	Three jumps, you're bound to get your packet.	The consensus is, the most sensible thing for Major Shears to do is to go ahead and jump and hope for the best.	With or without parachute?	Oh, very good!	With or without!	He's in the trees!	Yai says we can't reach the Kwai by the route you took.	There are too many Japanese patrols.	We'll swing north through heavy jungle.	-Who's gonna lead the way?	-Yai himself.	He hates the Japanese.	They took all his men.	Which means we shall have to use women bearers.	-Women bearers.	-They're very capable, I'm told.	He says it's dangerous to spend the night in the village.	There's an enemy post three miles away so we'll have to sleep in the jungle.	-What about Chapman?	-Yai will bury him and his chute.	Is there something wrong?	I was just thinking.	You speak Yai's language.	I don't.	He's gonna lead you back to the river by a route I never took.	Will someone tell me why I'm so indispensable to this outfit?	I know how you feel, but there's always the unexpected, isn't there?	Tell that to Chapman.	Let's get cracking.	You're lovely.	Lovely.	Be happy in your work.	Yes, sir.	Leeches.	She's telling you to hold still.	She'll take the leeches off your back.	What's a nice girl like you doing in a place like this?	I'll teach you to say that in Siamese.	No, that would spoil it.	Too much talk always spoils it.	What's wrong with that thing?	It's taken an awful beating.	I can't get a strong signal.	I'll tell you what's wrong.	It's wet, mildewed, corroded, rotten.	Like everything else in this jungle.	You might as well dump it!	This is Radio Tokyo signing off.	This is your friendliest enemy reminding you to take it easy and never volunteer for anything.	If we stay, we'll be up to our necks.	-I've got it all decoded, sir.	-Read it.	Yes, sir. "One, original bridge works reported abandoned.	New construction downstream from first site.	Two, enemy intends to open railway with passage of special train Bangkok for Rangoon with troops and V.l.P.	Estimated to arrive target, a.m. 13th.	Three, synchronize demolition with passage this train.	Four, good hunting.	Have fun." That's all, sir.
I made it ashore, but I got separated from the other survivors.	And your group here?	Mostly Aussies.	Some lime--	Some British.	Indians, Burmese, Siamese.	And what happened to them?	They died of malaria, dysentery, beri-beri, gangrene.	Other causes of death:	Famine, overwork, bullet wounds, snakebites Saito.	Then there were some who just got tired of living.	Has Clipton seen you?	Just about to.	Come over here, you can shave later.	All right.	You'll stay with the officers.	We'll find some decent clothing.	Don't bother about me.	I'm not anxious to get off the sick list.	Besides, this is working kit.	It's the fashion here.	The officers in your party did manual labour?	I think you could call it that.	I raised that very point with Colonel what's-his-name.	Saito.	-I think he understands now.	-Is that so?	Yes.	I must say he seems quite a reasonable type.	Well, I must be pushing on.	There's an officer's meeting at 7.	-Give me a list of your requirements.	-Yes, sir.	Anything we can do.	Thank you, sir.	-What is it?	-Never mind.	Go on, say it.	I can think of a lot of things to call Saito but reasonable, that's a new one.	Perhaps Col. NichoIson defines the word differently.	Any other points?	-By your leave, sir?	-Jennings?	About the escape committee.	I've spoken with Cmd.	Shears--	There won't be any escape committee.	I don't understand, sir.	Lt. Jennings has a plan.	Yes, yes, I'm sure Jennings has a plan, but escape?	Where?	Into this jungle?	That fellow, Saito, is right.	No need for barbed wire here.	One chance in 1 00 of survival.	I'm sure a man of Cmdr. Shears' experience will back me up on that.	I'd say that the odds against a successful escape are 1 00 to one.	But may I add another word?	Please.	The odds against survival in this camp are even worse.	You've seen the graveyard.	They're your real odds.	To give up hope of escape to stop thinking about it means accepting a death sentence.	Why haven't you tried to escape, commander?	I'm biding my time.	Waiting for the right moment, the right company.	I understand how you feel.	Of course, it's the duty of a captured soldier to attempt escape.	But my men and I are involved in a curious legal point of which you are unaware.	In Singapore we were ordered to surrender by command headquarters.	Ordered, mind you.	Therefore, in our case, escape might well be an infraction of military law.	Interesting point, sir.	I'm sorry, sir, I didn't quite follow you.	You intend to uphold the letter of the law, no matter what it costs?	Without law, commander, there is no civilization.	That's just my point.	Here, there is no civilization.	Then we have the opportunity to introduce it.	I suggest we drop the subject of escape.	Is there anything else?	I think we're clear on the program.	I want everything to go off smoothly starting tomorrow morning.	And remember this:	Our men must always feel they are still commanded by us and not by the Japanese.	So long as they have that idea, they'll be soldiers and not slaves.	Are you with me there, commander?	I hope they can remain soldiers, colonel.	As for me, I'm just a slave.	A living slave.	Queer bird.	Even for an Ameri--	He's been in isolation too long, poor chap.	Cut off from his unit.	It should be a lesson to all of us.	English prisoners!	Notice I do not say English soldiers.	From the moment you surrendered, you ceased to be soldiers.	You will finish the bridge by the twelfth day of May.	You will work under the direction of a Japanese engineer.	Time is short.	All men will work.	Your officers will work beside you.	This is only just for it is they who betrayed you by surrender.	Your shame is their dishonour.	It is they who told you better to live like a coolie then die like a hero.	It is they who brought you here, not I.	Therefore, they will join you in useful labour.	That is all.	Officer prisoners, collect your tools.	Bradley, back in your place.	I must call your attention, Colonel Saito to Article 27 of the Geneva Convention.	" Belligerents may employ prisoners of war who are fit, other than officers--"	Give me the book.	By all means.	You read English, I take it?	-Do you read Japanese?	-I'm sorry, no.	If it's a matter of translation, I'm sure it can be arranged.	You see, the Code states that--
Now then, the railway starts down here in Singapore.	Malaya, Bangkok, Rangoon.	Their idea is to drive on through into India.	Where was I picked up?	About here.	As you know, thejapanese aim to open the Bangkok-Rangoon section by mid-May.	Naturally, we'll try to prevent them.	Naturally, we'll try to prevent them.	It's too far for bombers to carry an adequate load... so we shall have to go in and smash it up on the ground.	- How will you get there?	- Parachute drop and then march.	- With demolition equipment?	- Yes.	Our chief problem is lack of firsthand knowledge.	None of us have ever been there.	- I don't want to discourage you, but--	- It should be interesting.	Colonel Green has given me the Kwai bridge.	I'm taking a team in and blow it up.	Lucky you.	- Are you sure you won't have tea?	- No, thanks.	I don't want to be rude, but I have a luncheon date, and she's beautiful.	- So if there are any questions--	- Yes, of course.	I am sorry.	There is only one question, actually.	How would you feel about going back?	Come again?	I know under the circumstances it's a bit much... but you do have a unique knowledge for our purpose... and we'd love to have you with us.	You mean to tell me you brought me here to ask me this?	Frankly, yes.	Major, I just got out of there.	My escape was a miracle.	Now you want me to go back?	Don't be ridiculous.	- This is embarrassing.	- I can't go back!	I don't belong to you.	I belong to the American Navy.	Actually, Colonel Green has already taken up the manner with your people.	- With my people?	- Yes, your navy turned you over to us.	A signal arrived yesterday morning from your C in C Pacific... authorizing your temporary transfer of duty to Force 31 6.	- They can't do this to me.	- I'm afraid they have.	It was difficult to know how to break it to you.	They can't do this to me.	My navy's made a mistake.	Look, I'm not a navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	Look, I'm not a navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	The whole thing's a fake.	I'm just an ordinary swab jockey, second class.	When the Houston sunk, I made it ashore with an officer.	Later, we ran into a Japanese patrol, and he was killed.	I figured I would be captured, so--	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	I thought officers would get better treatment in prison camps.	- Very sensible.	- Not that it did me any good.	At Saito's camp, the officers worked along with the rest.	Yes, there's always the unexpected.	I got used to being a commander... so when I arrived here at the hospital...	I looked at the enlisted men's ward and the officers' ward... and I said to myself, " Let's let it ride along for awhile."	There were certain definite advantages.	Yes, I saw one on the beach.	Anyway, that's the whole story.	The point is that you can't use me.	You want an American commander named Shears, and he doesn't exist.	When the Navy brass learns the truth about me, they'll say...	"Ship him home in irons for impersonating an officer!"	Once that happens, I've got it made.	- Got it what?	- " Made."	- I'd like that drink now.	- Of course.	I'll apply for a medical discharge.	I'll say I impersonated an officer because I went crazy in the jungle.	I'm getting worse, you know?	Sometimes I think I'm Admiral Halsey.	That's a clever plan.	It's not only clever, it's foolproof.	When my navy finds out who I am... those temporary orders won't be worth the paper they're written on.	Is this your photograph?	- Where did you get this?	- It took a bit of doing.	Naturally, your people couldn't identify you at first.	But finally your C in C Pacific sent us a copy of your service record:	the photograph, fingerprints.	It has everything.	Would you care to have a look?	We've known about your actual rank for nearly a week.	Your navy's in an awkward position.	In one sense, you're a hero for making an escape from the jungle.	In one sense, you're a hero for making an escape from the jungle.	But they can't very well bring you home... and give you the Navy Cross for impersonating an officer.	I suppose that's why they were happy to hand you over to us.	- You see?	- Hot potato.	As far as your present rank is concerned... we're fairly informal about those things in Force 31 6.
Under the circumstances it's a bit much but you have a unique knowledge for our purpose.	We'd love to have you with us.	That's why you brought me here?	To ask me this?	Well, frankly, yes.	I just got out of there.	My escape was a miracle.	Now you want me to go back!	Ridiculous!	This is embarrassing...	I don't belong to you.	I belong to the American Navy.	Actually, Col. Green has taken the matter up with your people.	- With my people?	- Your Navy's turned you over to us.	A signal arrived yesterday morning from the Pacific authorizing your temporary transfer of duty to Force 316.	- They can't do this!	- I'm afraid they have.	It was hard to break it to you.	But they can't do this to me.	I mean it.	My Navy's made a mistake!	Look.	I'm not a Navy commander.	I'm not even an officer.	The whole thing's a fake.	I'm just an ordinary swab jockey, second class.	When the Houston sunk, I made it ashore with a real commander.	We ran into a Japanese patrol.	He was killed.	I figured it was just a matter of time till I...	So you changed uniforms with a dead man.	I thought officers would get better treatment in prison camps.	But with Saito, the officers worked along with the rest.	There's always the unexpected, isn't there?	I kind of got used to being a commander so when I arrived at the hospital I took a look at the enlisted men's ward and then the officer's ward and I said to myself, "Let's let it ride along for a while."	There were certain advantages.	I saw one of them on the beach.	That's the whole story.	The point is, you can't use me.	You want an officer an American Commander Shears who doesn't exist.	When the Navy learns the truth, they'll say:	"Ship him home for impersonating an officer."	- Once that happens, I've got it made.	- Got it what?	Made!	I'd like that drink now.	I'll apply for a medical discharge.	I'll say I impersonated an officer because I went crazy in the jungle.	I'm getting worse.	Sometimes I think I'm Admiral Halsey.	It's quite a clever plan.	Not only clever, it's foolproof.	If my Navy finds out who I am those orders won't be worth the paper they're written on.	Isn't this your photograph?	- Where did you get this?	- It took some doing since your people couldn't identify you.	Finally your C-in-C Pacific sent us a copy of your service record.	The photograph, fingerprints.	Would you care to have a look?	You see, we've known about your actual rank for nearly a week.	Your Navy's in an awkward position.	In one sense you're a hero for making an escape from the jungle.	At the same time, they can't bring you home and give you the Navy Cross for impersonating an officer.	I suppose that's why they were happy to hand you over.	You see?	Hot potato.	As far as your rank is concerned we're fairly informal about that in Force 316.	You'd have the simulated rank of major.	A simulated major.	That figures.	Well...	As long as I'm hooked, I might as well volunteer.	Good show!	Oh, Colonel Green, sir.	This is Major Shears.	He volunteered to go and help me blow up the bridge.	Really?	Good show!	Jolly good show, major!	Get up to sick bay.	This foot's infected.	Colonel might think I'm malingering.	I'm the medical officer.	Get cracking!	Will someone tell me why he wants to build a proper bridge?	Don't worry about old Nick.	He knows what he's doing.	Hello, Clipton.	About time you paid us a visit.	Fine job our chaps are doing.	Yes.	How's he behaving?	He's been most reasonable since we took over.	- What's he thinking?	- I haven't the foggiest.	- Thanks, Reeves.	- Right, sir.	What do you think?	Quite a challenge, isn't it?	Are you convinced that building this bridge is a good idea?	- Are you serious?	- Yes, sir.	A good idea?	Take another look.	You don't agree morale is high?	Discipline has been restored?	Their condition has improved?	Are they a happier lot or aren't they?	They feed better and they are no longer abused.	Honestly, Clipton, there are times when I don't understand you at all.	I'll try to make myself clear.	The fact is, what we're doing could be construed as forgive me, sir, collaboration with the enemy.	Perhaps even treason.	We're prisoners of war.	We haven't the right to refuse to work.	I understand that, sir.	But must we work so well?	Must we do better than they could themselves?
And so say all of us	And so say all of us And so say all of us	For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow	For he's a jolly good fellow	And so say all of us	Timber!	One, two, three, four.	No, no, no!	Let go!	You wish to see me?	I've been trying to see you for three days.	It's about Colonel Nicholson.	He's been shut up in that hut--	I could have you shot.	Those prisoners who tried to escape, they were in your charge.	I knew nothing about the escape.	It does not matter.	One must even respect those who tried.	For a brief moment, between escape and death they were soldiers again.	But it is insane to try and escape.	Two soldiers shot, the third drowned.	To what end?	It was an escape from reality.	There is your reality.	This shows the position work should have reached by noon today.	And this shows the position of actual progress.	Because of your colonel's stubbornness we are far behind schedule.	That is not all.	Enlisted prisoners sabotaged the work.	Yes, I have seen it.	I could have them all shot.	Then who would build your bridge?	Besides, are you sure it's sabotage?	Perhaps the men don't work well without their own officers.	My officers will direct them.	Your officers will work beside them.	That's for Colonel Nicholson to decide.	As he said, it's against the rules.	Do not speak to me of rules.	This is war!	This is not a game of cricket.	He's mad, your colonel quite mad.	Sit down, please.	I have decided to allow you one visit to your colonel.	Thank you.	Tell him that if his officers will not work I'll be forced to close the hospital and your patients will work in their place.	And many will die, and he will be responsible.	Go and speak to him.	You have five minutes.	Hey, the doc's going to see the old man.	Sir....	It's Clipton, sir.	I brought you a few things.	-How are the men?	-Fine, sir, fine.	We scraped together a little meat and a coconut.	And the officers?	Oh, they're not so good.	They're still in detention.	And Lieutenant Jennings....	Jennings is dead.	-What?	-Killed, attempting to escape.	Also two others, Corporal Weaver and the American.	Jennings.	Poor, brave lad.	I warned him, didn't I, Clipton?	Look, sir, we haven't much time.	I'm going to clean you up a little while I talk.	I've got something to tell you.	I've just had a word with Saito.	That man is the worst commanding officer I've ever come across.	Actually, I think he's mad.	Carry on.	Blackmail.	I know, sir, but he means it.	I'm sure he does.	It's a question of face, pure and simple.	And he can't give in.	It's still blackmail.	Sir, you can't stand much more of this.	Wouldn't the officers be better off working than suffocating in that hole?	The men are doing a wonderful job.	They're going as slow as they dare.	But Saito's cut their food rations and if he makes the sick men work....	Well, they're going to die.	That's all there is to it.	Yes, Clipton, I understand.	Truly.	But don't you see?	It's a matter of principle.	If we give in now, there'll be no end to it.	No.	Sir, we're lost in the jungle, a thousand miles from anywhere.	We're under the heel of a man who'll stop at nothing to get his way.	Principle!	No one will ever know or care what happens to us.	Give in, sir.	Please!	I'm adamant.	I will not have an officer from my battalion working as a coolie.	-Time.	-All right.	Please thank those concerned.	Everybody in the hospital contributed one piece.	Reynolds stole the coconut.	We'll be able to get you something from time to time.	We've bribed one of your guards.	Goodbye, sir.	And good luck.	Many thanks.	-Clipton!	-Yes, sir?	Did you say that American chap was killed?	Yes, sir.	Shot and drowned.	It's insane to plan escapes.	Three men killed, and to what end?	-Time!	-Here.	-Here is where we must win through.	-Time, time!	The doc just looked at us and shook his head.	Whatever that means.	Means only one thing, colonel won't give in.	Well?	It's like this.	Colonel Nicholson won't give in to force.	It's a question of principle.	As medical officer, I protest to the way he's being treated.	It's a wonder he's still alive.	Should a tragedy occur, it would be tantamount to murder.	He is responsible.	Not I.	You sick?	Are they both mad?	Or am I going mad?	Or is it the sun?	Attention!	Battalion, attention.
But some people expect it to.	Is this a conspiracy, Myra, or may I have a light?	We were just talking about Ann Warren and her husband.	What's the matter?	Trouble in paradise?	So I hear.	Well, she doesn't exactly look like the happy young bride.	Thanks.	Hello, Ann.	Margot, are those women talking about me?	Those women are talking about everybody.	It's the only form of communication we have.	You'll adjust to it.	I suppose so.	Would you like a cigarette?	Margot, how do you balance a bankbook?	Oh, that's simple, you just doctor the books, cheat on the budget and steal from yourself.	I'll have to try it.	I was going to call you this afternoon, Ann.	We'd like you and Joe to come for dinner.	Friday night, if it's convenient.	We haven't been going out much.	I'll have to talk to Joe about it.	I'll phone you.	Hi.	Hello, darling.	Beat?	To a pulp.	Then I'll save the dire news till you've had you're drink.	Anything wrong?	Oh, no.	Not really.	Something sprang a leak in the basement.	I don't know.	It's got something to do with the water heater.	Hmm.	So, I was all ready to be intrepid and put my finger in the dike, but I couldn't see where it was coming from.	I'll have a look at it before dinner.	Oh, by the way, I asked the Warrens over for dinner.	Not tonight?	Oh, no.	Friday.	Ann's got problems.	I invited them on the spur of the moment.	Her biggest problem is Joe Warren.	What's the trouble?	How should I know?	He's just a jealous, suspicious guy.	Well, you saw him last weekend at the Country Club.	He just sat and glowered all evening.	Well, I've already invited them, I hope you don't mind?	I guess not.	But it doesn't sound like a very stimulating evening.	We're certainly over-stimulated by the frantic life we lead out here.	I thought you liked living out here.	I do.	But you must admit there isn't much excitement.	I mean, when the big event of my day is a leak in the basement?	What you need is a good knife murder, or one of those juvenile gang wars.	Oh, shut up.	Did you get it fixed?	No.	It's too dark down there to see what's wrong.	I guess you'll have to call a plumber.	First thing in the morning.	Come on.	Get washed up.	Dinner's ready.	Oh, and honey?	Make sure you get an estimate before you let him do any work.	Yes, dear.	If he says it's gonna be more than $10 you can just tell him to forget it.	Oh, well, shouldn't I bargain with him?	I had such good luck with the butcher.	Yeah, well it's the milkman I've got my eye on.	Oh darling, I didn't know you were the jealous type.	Well, I wouldn't be too sure.	I'm hungry.	Mrs. Brenner?	Yes?	You phoned me up about a leak?	Oh.	You're very prompt.	Come in.	Thanks.	Would you make a note of the time?	I work by the hour.	I wouldn't want my customers to think I'm overcharging.	Oh, it's just 9:30.	Say, this is a nice place you got here.	I like the way you got it fixed up.	Thanks.	I'll bet you did it all yourself.	Well, yes, most of it.	Now, this is what really interests me.	The kitchen.	Not like most men, huh?	No, I suppose not.	Oh, well, it's different with me, you see, being a plumber.	I kind of make it my business to know just what appeals to women.	I didn't mean that the way it sounded.	You know something?	I can take a look at a kitchen and give you a pretty fair estimate of that person's income.	Would you believe that?	No.	Not really.	You wouldn't, huh?	Okay, I'll prove it to you.	I'd say your husband makes about...	Oh, about 19, 20,000 a year.	I came pretty close, didn't I?	You know that Rhoda Forbes that lives down the block?	Yes.	I know Mrs. Forbes.	Yeah, well, I did some work for Mrs. Forbes last winter, and I guessed her husband's income right on the nose.	Well, I...	I guess I better take a look at that leak.	Yes, it's right down there, behind the furnace.	I'll take care of it.	Do you know where the turn-off valve is?	No, but it's down there someplace.	I'll find it.	Oh, say, my husband said to get an estimate before you do the work.	Anything you say, Mrs. Brenner.	Hello?	Oh, hi, Rhoda.	Yeah.	Oh, wait a minute.	You're not finished already?	Oh, no, no.	I've...	I'm just waiting for the pipe to drain.	It takes a couple of minutes, you know.	I've got to turn the valve off in the bathroom.	Now, where is that?	Upstairs?	Oh, yes.	Why do you have to go upstairs to fix the leak in the basement?
I mean, when the big event of my day is a leak in the basement?	What you need is a good knife murder, or one of those juvenile gang wars.	Oh, shut up.	Did you get it fixed?	No.	It's too dark down there to see what's wrong.	I guess you'll have to call a plumber.	First thing in the morning.	Come on.	Get washed up.	Dinner's ready.	Oh, and honey?	Make sure you get an estimate before you let him do any work.	Yes, dear.	If he says it's gonna be more than $10 you can just tell him to forget it.	Oh, well, shouldn't I bargain with him?	I had such good luck with the butcher.	Yeah, well it's the milkman I've got my eye on.	Oh darling, I didn't know you were the jealous type.	Well, I wouldn't be too sure.	I'm hungry.	Mrs. Brenner?	Yes?	You phoned me up about a leak?	Oh.	You're very prompt.	Come in.	Thanks.	Would you make a note of the time?	I work by the hour.	I wouldn't want my customers to think I'm overcharging.	Oh, it's just 9:30.	Say, this is a nice place you got here.	I like the way you got it fixed up.	Thanks.	I'll bet you did it all yourself.	Well, yes, most of it.	Now, this is what really interests me.	The kitchen.	Not like most men, huh?	No, I suppose not.	Oh, well, it's different with me, you see, being a plumber.	I kind of make it my business to know just what appeals to women.	I didn't mean that the way it sounded.	You know something?	I can take a look at a kitchen and give you a pretty fair estimate of that person's income.	Would you believe that?	No.	Not really.	You wouldn't, huh?	Okay, I'll prove it to you.	I'd say your husband makes about...	Oh, about 19, 20,000 a year.	I came pretty close, didn't I?	You know that Rhoda Forbes that lives down the block?	Yes.	I know Mrs. Forbes.	Yeah, well, I did some work for Mrs. Forbes last winter, and I guessed her husband's income right on the nose.	Well, I...	I guess I better take a look at that leak.	Yes, it's right down there, behind the furnace.	I'll take care of it.	Do you know where the turn-off valve is?	No, but it's down there someplace.	I'll find it.	Oh, say, my husband said to get an estimate before you do the work.	Anything you say, Mrs. Brenner.	Hello?	Oh, hi, Rhoda.	Yeah.	Oh, wait a minute.	You're not finished already?	Oh, no, no.	I've...	I'm just waiting for the pipe to drain.	It takes a couple of minutes, you know.	I've got to turn the valve off in the bathroom.	Now, where is that?	Upstairs?	Oh, yes.	Why do you have to go upstairs to fix the leak in the basement?	You've got to equalize the pressure or else you'll flood the whole cellar.	That's the trouble with a Stetson valve.	Otherwise they're very good.	Say, Rhoda, will you call me back again in a few minutes?	No, just a domestic crisis.	Yeah, thanks.	The bathroom is over there.	Hey, you painted this.	Margot Brenner.	That's you, ain't it?	Yes, last summer.	Up in Maine.	Well, what do you know.	A real artist.	I never met a celebrity before.	Don't be ridiculous, it's very amateurish.	No.	No, it's not.	You got real talent.	Listen, I never had much education before, but I got an artistic side.	I know something good when I see it.	I got real appreciation.	Most people have appreciation, but they're untrained.	They don't really see things.	That's absolutely true.	You know, people go through life with their eyes closed.	Not me.	You'd be surprised at some of the things I see.	You take this room for instance.	I can tell you got good taste.	You take those drapes, take this furniture, take that bedspread.	How much you pay for a spread like this?	Please.	I wish you'd get on with your work.	Sure.	I know I talk too much.	That's what everybody tells me.	But I don't mean no harm.	I'm just trying to be a little friendly.	Now the world would be a better place, wouldn't it, if everybody was just a little more friendly.	You know, "love thy neighbor"?	That's the way I am.	That's nice.	Got a lot of style.	Just like you.	Put it down.	Okay, okay, okay.	Nice and silky.	You look scared, Mrs. Brenner.	If it's on account of me, I want to apologize.	I don't mean no harm.	I just got natural curiosity, that's all.	You know, it takes curiosity to be a good plumber.	Well,	I guess I'd better get on with my trade, huh?	Mrs. Brenner.	I'm going down to the basement.	Now I ought to be able to give you an estimate in a couple of minutes.
Get yourself a drink Van, you deserve it.	Hey what is this?	We do all the work and he does all the counting.	Take away that vest and what is he?	I don't need any vest!	From now on, you're going to wear it.	You know why?	Because you're yellow.	Are you sure that's the man Mr. Hall?	That's the man.	You know, you're lucky to be alive.	I know.	I keep pinching myself to make sure I am.	I'll never forget the look on his face when I was standing along side the car.	He had death in his eyes.	And then suddenly...	That look disappeared.	You know...	I think it's just because I was a small as he is.	You recognize this man, Mr. Hall?	Er...	I can't be sure.	Just a minute...	Alex.	Once he sees a face... that's it.	- Yes Mr. Hall.	- Alex, can you recognize this man?	I've seen him twice.	Weeks ago.	Card he gave me said he was a deputy county assessor.	Mason.	That was the name.	No!	That was Nagel.	Fatso Nagel!	Good morning Mr. Nagel.	Come in.	Why not.	It's my office.	What are you doing in it?	Making use of a search warrant a judge gave us.	- Police?	- F.B.I. Mr. Nagel.	- Did you er...	find what you're looking for?	Yes, but not here.	At the Midland First National, up in Michigan.	I don't recall doing any business with Michigan banks.	Do you recall doing any business with Baby Face Nelson?	This is The Nagel, Blueprint and Draughting Company, gentlemen.	Stop it Mr. Nagel.	Nelson killed a federal agent in Little Bohemia.	You were there.	We can charge you as an accessory.	Can you make the charge stick?	Yes, but if you cooperate, we'll inform the courts.	Where is Nelson, Mr. Nagel?	I don't know.	D'you think he tells people where he is.	- We want answers, not questions.	- Maybe I don't know any answers.	Then what were you doing at Little Bohemia?	Say I was there.	Say you tailed me there.	Now wouldn't a fellow like Nelson be cagy about seeing me again	We thought of that.	This is his next job.	- Go there?	- No, but you can say you did.	The Brewers Bank and Trust in St. Paul.	You can say there's $100,000 in it any day of the week.	I can say a lot of things, but how do I get him to hold still and listen?	Fatso, you've been in San Francisco.	You've seen that big rock out in the bay.	You wouldn't want to spend the rest of your life there.	So you figure out a way to make him hold still and listen.	Susie.	Make a call to Daddy from a public phone on the other side of town.	Daddy?	- Yes Baby?	- 1- 1- 6- 2 State Street, Chicago.	11- 62 State Street.	Noon tomorrow and how much?	Shall we say five Baby.	And it's worth every penny.	It better be.	Better be.	We'll take that Mr. Nagel.	Say, how come you didn't tail her?	Or did you?	We don't want her to know we're on to you.	How come you didn't ask the taxi where he picked her up.	Probably in front of Marshall Fields.	But there's one thing we're going to do,	Turn you over to the police.	The back entrance.	Here's the front.	Right here is the vault.	- Do you know the set up?	- You seen one bank you've seen them all	You figure on getting away in that?	This is awful slow.	You drive up awful slow.	Sue'll be out front to pick us up.	That's it.	If he doesn't show up soon, we'll wear out our welcome.	- the help's getting awfully nervous.	- So am I but for a different reason.	I'm wondering if he took the bait.	- We got a shipment for you.	- Hurry up, it's heavy.	He'll sleep real good.	The manager just took some armed guards to the vault.	They must be OK, or Duncan wouldn't have passed them.	Alright, reach up high Buddy.	Hurry up.	Shut up and face the wall.	Come on.	Move.	Right, give it to me.	Alright boys, I've got mine.	You can divvy up the rest.	Alright Sue, I'll take the wheel.	Where are the others?	Back in the vault counting their money.	- You left them behind?	- We don't need them any more.	That money'll keep up for the rest of our lives.	- They'll tell the cops.	- We're not going back there.	Where we're going, they'll never look for us.	Going back to the same hideout.	Ditch the car whilst I change clothes.	- Hey, you missed him again.	- Look at those feathers flying around.	- Who wants an old crow anyway?	- I want one.	We ought to be getting home.	Ma'll skin up if we're late for supper.	If you're so worried about Mom, go on home.	- A couple of kids up there.
I would advise you to speak.	Answer me!	What does this mean?	Answer!	- Do you know anything about this?	- No.	If this is The Bat, who is sending his symbol?	I don't know, Captain.	Maybe those two guys we were talking about.	But I don't know why they are doing this.	Take him away and don't lose sight of him.	This is getting complicated.	We must be very careful.	They seem to be very dangerous.	I agree, Captain.	I've been told that this man called The Bat... was a distinguished doctor.	Yes, but his license was withdrawn.	Why was that?	Because he experimented with live animals... to whom he implanted parts which didn't belong to their anatomy... creating horrible creatures.	How much evil can a man hold?	But, with the evidence we have... we can send him to jail for several years.	I hope so, Captain.	We must not worry about this.	I thank you all for your cooperation.	- Just one more thing, Dr. Almada.	- Yes, Captain?	Give us the description of the fugitives... so as to proceed immediately.	Sure, Captain.	- Are you going to bed, Anita?	- Yes.	- Good night, Daddy.	- Good night, love.	- Good night to everyone.	- Good night, Anita!	At last we shall have some peace and quiet.	With The Bat in jail, this is over.	No, it's not over yet.	What about the Curse of the Gods?	- That's over, too.	- No.	My father lost his life when he desecrated an Aztec tomb.	According to the curse... my death follows his, because I am to blame for what has happened.	Please Flor, just try to forget it.	If the Mummy has the breastplate and the bracelet... she won't come back to life.	Listen, once your mourning is over... we will get married and you will forget everything.	In the meantime, stay with us.	My daughter and I need you.	You are so kind.	That was quite a scare!	When I recall what happened to us... my heart starts kicking.	Really?	You always faint when there's some sort of trouble.	Of course!	Why should I risk my head?	You are a hero!	My dear friend, I'd rather they say...	"Pinacate ran from here" than "Pinacate died here."	Ready?	- When did The Bat leave?	- Not more than two minutes ago.	- Where to?	- That way.	Bastard!	Now you'll have to pay!	Don't kill him, Tierno!	- But, Master...	- I know what I'm saying.	Hurry up!	Let's go to the car!	I will kill this intruder, my way.	THE BAT ESCAPED	Good evening.	Who are you?	- How did you get in?	- I'm a friend.	Then why is your face covered?	It's a long story.	I just came to tell you you are in great danger.	The Bat escaped.	What's your interest in this?	Who are you?	They call me "The Angel."	I try to help you and anyone who is in trouble.	My mission to which I am fully dedicated is to fight against evil.	I wear a mask because it's easier for me to work.	How did The Bat escape?	When he was taken to prison...	Tierno and his men rescued him...	- killing all the guards.	- That's outrageous!	Unfortunately, I couldn't stop them from escaping.	- What will he do next?	- Who knows.	I only want you to take precautions.	I don't know what his next move will be!	Is the police after him now?	Yes, of course.	Their dead partners are crying out for vengeance.	I have to go now.	I'll leave you a radio watch.	If you are in trouble, you can call me.	I'll aid you as soon as possible.	See you soon!	That's not good news.	The Bat is free.	When will this nightmare end?	Eduardo, why don't we leave the country and forget this.	You're right.	We'll do that.	In two or three days.	- Hasn't Pinacate returned?	- Not yet, Eduardo.	I need his help to organize my papers.	Then, we will leave.	It was a good idea that you sent that paper...	It was a good idea that you sent that paper... with the image of a bat.	I immediately knew you were trying to rescue me.	And fortunately we did it, boss.	You deserve a reward and I am willing to give you one.	- What will it be?	- The Aztec treasure.	Will we try again to get hold of it?	Yes, Lobo.	But this time we won't fail.	Nothing will stop us from seizing that fabulous treasure.	What should we do?	Listen carefully.	One night, long time ago...	Dr. Almada hypnotized his fiance Flor... to prove his theory... that he could send her by means of hypnosis... to live a former life she had experienced.	Now you're 20 years old.	- Where are you?
Come and look, don´t be silly!	Kiss him!	Where are you going?	Ana!	Why am I being sent to Buenos Aires?	I have told you three times	You are too old to be playing with boys.	And aren´t my sisters older than me?	My!	All these questions!	They are old enough to know what a sin is.	Is kissing a sin?	It depends on the intention.	I didn´t want to kiss him.	That´s why you are being brought.	You can´t recognize your intentions.	Least of all, the intentions of other people darling!	It´s always better to kiss a man than a statue.	-Good evening.	-Good evening.	Are you going to the city?	Could you give us a lift to the workshop on the corner?	Good evening sir.	He´s Pablo Aguirre, one of your father´s bethren.	-Get in sir	-Thank you, our car is broken.	Are you Pablo Aguirre, the congressman?	-Yes madame.	I always read your speeches.	They are really nice but you say things about poor people that I don´t understand.	Maybe, for the time being, ignorance is best for many people.	Yeah, sure...	Oh no!	We are already used to it!	This is Dr. Castro´s daughter.	Oh, nice to meet you!	Say Ramón, has Dr. Castro arrived to Buenos Aires?	Yes.	I think they will meet in the house tonight.	I didn´t know anything about it.	I thought that would be tomorrow.	-How long until we arrive?	-Half an hour.	Are you related to the Moreno´s?	-Yes.	-Your deads were stolen.	Weren´t they?	-I´m sorry, what?	-Revenge, they say.	The "masked of the Night" stole the bodies and the Moreno´s need to start dying now if they want people in their graveyards.	-Are you also interested in that?	-Yes, quite.	They are nothing but fantasies.	Lies that can hurt.	I once met a man, honest filled with ideals and hope, who started to say that he carried dead in his gaze.	His life was ruined.	When one is really good what harm can rumors do?	Nobody is "good" for real	"Goodness" has degrees or moments it depends on casualty, humor.	For example, do you consider yourself to be good?	-She´s a child, Mr. Aguirre.	-I´m not a child anymore.	-Why do you say that?	-If I hadn´t been sent back to Buenos Aires...	-Mr.	Aguirre, we are here	Pablo Aguirre, some years ago he killed a man in a duel.	But he is so young!	Oh darling!	Men just keep getting worse!	From a very young age, the devil gets in their bodies and stays right there!	Naturally, they jump in the "Grill of Hell".	Can you imagine hell Ana?	Thousands of fire tongues touching your body	Ovens, heat, fire!	Can you imagine that Ana?	Go up to your room while Ramón helps me with the luggage.	Nation´s journalism depends on tomorrow´s meeting	So, Pablo Aguirre is our man.	Besides being a brilliant speaker, his last years in Europe and USA, have made him capable of defending our ideas.	Besides, He stands for the liberal part of our movement.	I insist that Pablo is not the right man for our controversy tomorrow.	Esquivel is too high-spirited and we could be affected by that.	You mean to say that Pablo Aguirre will not be able to handle this situation?	I didn´t.	Don´t you remember the unfortunate incident prior to Pablo´s travel?	-Come on!	Women´s stuff!	-Ana, what are you doing here?	-Nana brought me.	Mom will be here in few days	-Why?	What happened?	-I don´t know?	Well, go up to your room.	We´ll talk later.	Well done Ramírez!	So, it´s done gentlemen!	What were you doing Nana?	Nothing, nothing!	I was praying.	Who are you praying to?	God or Christ?	My, what a stupid question!	They are the same thing!	I pray to Jesus.	God is an old man with a beard.	Hope your mother doesn´t hear you saying those things.	But why do you pray so much Nana?	Don´t you ever pray?	I have never seen you making "spiritual bouquets"...	Me? "Spiritual Bouquets"?	For what?	What do you mean for what?	Praying is necessary	The Sin is not only the death of the soul, but also of the body!	The resurrection of the dead is denied to your body if you are in mortal sin.	It will burn for all the eternity!	Take a good look at that painting!	It´s the end of the world!	It´s only waiting one word from God to be unleashed!	An angel will come out of it, and by playing his trumpet masses of fire and hail mixed with blood will fall over the earth	Warm blood, like that of chickens and lambs!	All of that, for just ONE mortal sin?
Where people?	Well, they gotta be there.	We've seen them, didn't we?	Yeah.	The Lord is my strength, my rock...	No women, no water.	But they got to be.	They were all around.	We talked to them right here.	That's right Chief.	They couldn't have just flew away.	Chief!	I know...	They're going away.	We're safe.	I know if I prayed there wouldn't be any killing.	It didn't do those three any good.	Alright, let's get below.	We sure fooled them, didn't we?	Frank, what have I done?	Could have happened to anyone, Bax.	Get to your posts!	Bax, look after the children.	You can shoot, get over there.	That's an order.	You will obey if I have to drag you over there.	What are they doing?	Waiting for the Medicine Man to tell them if the signs are in their favor.	Hold your fire McCasslin, they are out of range.	They just want us to get scared and use our ammunition.	Mother Of Moses, you can't get any scarier than I am right now.	This is it!	Let them come into the yard before you shoot.	And don't waste any bullets.	Now!	Get them.	Get down!	It doesn't matter.	It does.	Hold your fire!	Martin, get those outposts in.	Why weren't you firing that piece?	Lieutenant, the Lord was plain enough in His commands about violence and bloodshed.	It seems to me he also said something about "An eye for an eye."	Go to the other side!	Get below!	Martin, Lacey, see if you can get some fire in there.	Is she dead?	She was guilty.	She was stained with the mark of sinners.	Shut up!	Come on, get her below, quick.	Mary.	Oh, what's the use of all this?	We can't beat them!	Let's just wait and die!	Oh...	What are you standing around here for?	Did you think it was gonna be a picnic?	Sergeant, take care of her.	What does it look like out there, Gibbons?	Put her over there.	Mama!	Talk to me, Mama!	Mama!	Oh, Mama.	Mama.	Come on, baby.	Come on, baby.	I wanna stay here with my Mama, please.	I know, baby, but it's gonna be all right.	You come with Lucy, huh?	I'll take care of you, I promise.	Everything's gonna be all right.	Some things the army doesn't teach, aren't there?	Lucy, I...	I wish to apologize for the bad things I've said about you.	And the... worse things I've thought about you.	Forget it.	I...	Thank you.	How many casualties?	Three dead - quite a few nicks.	It could have been worse.	What happens now?	We wait until the Medicine Man says a few prayers to decide when to attack again.	How will we know?	It won't be any secret.	# Them golden steps of gold	# Golden steps of gold I'm gonna wear because they look for me #	Cut the request, we need all the rest we can get.	Those drums are driving me crazy!	Frank!	They're sneaking up on us!	Hold it!	Hold it!	That's no attack.	They're coming to claim their dead.	Sergeant Lacey, soon as they move away, send a Q6118" t0 bury those renegades.	Right.	I'm sorry.	You did right.	How are you holding up, McCasslin?	Just tired.	I...	I know this may sound strange after the way I acted, but when you're liable to be sleeping for a long while, you try to crowd in as much living as you can in the time that's left.	You're a good soldier.	Go get some rest.	Thanks.	Frank.	I want you to know, whatever happens, I've learned one thing out of it - life is meant for only one thing, every minute of it.	To love and to be loved, that's all that counts.	Stella, listen...	- Please...	And if we live through this, I'm gonna tell my husband what never really started between him and me is never gonna start... and then I'm going home to Chaplain and wait.	Jones, take over here.	You're gonna be on guard at three o'clock.	You better get some sleep.	Stop treating me like a child.	I treat you all the same.	Except Stella Leatham.	That's crazy.	No.	If you can fool a young boy like Bax, cue stoop to lie about me...	If you don't want to be treated like a child, don't act like one.	Scared, Ann?	We all are, you know.	It's not that.	Oh?	What, then?	The love bug bite you?	No!	I don't know.	I just don't know.	Oh, to be young and not know the source of your troubles.	He's a Yankee.	Yes, and he's a liar too.	Hear, now.	If you love him, you help him.	He's got nothing but troubles.	Men gather around a minute, I want to talk to you.	He ought to be back in the army, always shouting, shouting orders.	His shouting doesn't fool me.
The mission.	You lie.	No, amigo.	To prove that we are honest, we will stay here and wait for you.	Si?	We are entitled to some of the gold.	You honest, you come with us.	They're headed toward us.	Back to your posts.	Wait.	We gotta gamble.	Get everybody on the roof.	Roof?	Move!	Hurry up!	Everybody to the roof!	Everybody to the roof!	Leave them open!	Go up!	No-one moves or talks.	One call could decide whether we stay alive or not.	Where people?	Well, they gotta be there.	We seen them, didn't we?	Yeah.	The Lord is my strength, my rock...	No women, no water.	But they got to be.	They were all around.	We talked to them.	That's right.	They couldn't have just flew away.	Chief!	I know...	They're going away.	We're safe.	I knew if I prayed there would be no killing.	It didn't do those three any good.	Let's get below.	We sure fooled them.	Frank, what have I done?	Coulda happened to anyone.	Get to your posts.	Bax, look after the children.	You can shoot, get over there.	That's an order.	You will obey if I have to drag you over there.	What are they doing?	He's gonna tell them if the signs are in their favour.	Mother of Moses, you can't get any scareder than I am right now.	Let them come into the yard before you shoot.	Don't waste any bullets.	Now!	Get them.	Get down!	It doesn't matter.	It does.	Hold your fire!	Martin, get those outposts in.	Why weren't you firing that piece?	The Lord was plain in His commands about violence and bloodshed.	He also said "An eye for an eye."	Go to the other side!	Get below!	Martin, Lacey, see if you can get some fire in there.	Is she dead?	She was guilty.	She was stained with the mark of sinners.	Shut upl	Come on, get her below, quick.	Mary.	Oh, what's the use of all this?	We can't beat them!	Let's just wait and die!	Oh...	What are you standing around for?	Did you think it would be a picnic?	Sergeant, take care of her.	What's it look like out there, Gibbons?	Put her over there.	Mama!	Talk to me, Mama!	Mama!	Oh, Mama.	Mama.	Come on, baby.	Come on, baby.	I wanna stay by Mama, please.	I know, baby, but it's gonna be all right.	You come with Lucy, huh?	I'll take care of you, I promise.	Everything's gonna be all right.	There's some things the army doesn't teach, aren't there?	Lucy, I...	I wish to apologise for the bad things I've said about you.	And the... worse things I've thought about you.	Forget it.	I...	Thank you.	How many casualties?	Two dead.	Quite a few nicks.	It could have been worse.	What happens now?	We wait until the medicine man says a prayer to decide when to attack.	How will we know?	It won't be any secret.	# Them golden slippers, gold	# Golden slippers I'm gonna wear because they look for me #	Conover, we need what rest we can get	Those drums are driving me crazy!	Frank!	They're sneaking up on us!	Hold it!	That's no attack.	They're coming to claim their dead.	Sergeant, when they've gone, send a detail to bury those renegades.	Right.	I'm sorry.	You did right.	How are you holding up?	Just tired.	This may sound strange after the way I acted, but when you're liable to be sleeping for a long while, you want as much living as you can in the time that's left.	You're a good soldier.	Get some rest.	Thanks.	Frank.	I want you to know, whatever happens, I've learned one thing - life is meant for only one thing, every minute of it.	To love and to be loved, that's all that counts.	Stella, listen...	- Please.	If we live, I'll tell my husband that what never started between us will never start	And then I'm going home.	And wait.	Jones, take over here.	You're on guard later.	Get some sleep.	Stop treating me like a child.	I treat you all the same.	Except Stella.	That's crazy.	No.	If you can fool a boy like Bax, if you can lie about me...	If you don't want to be treated like a child, don't act like one.	Scared, Ann?	We all are, you know.	It's not that.	Oh?	What, then?	The love bug bite you?	No!	I don't know.	I just don't know.	Oh, to be young and not know the source of your troubles.	He's a Yankee.	Yes, and he's a liar, too.	Hear, now.	If you love him, you help him.	He's got nothing but troubles.	Men, I want to talk to you.	He ought to be back in the army, always shouting, shouting orders.	His shouting doesn't fool me.	He's worrying himself sick for us.	Trying not to show it.
Simple?	Sergeant Lacey!	Sergeant Lacey!	The Lieutenant and Kettle - they're fighting.	What happened, Hewitt?	- Deserter.	And what are you?	Hewitt drove off all the horses.	Did you?	- Yes.	Why?	He was afraid we'd leave and tell where he was hiding.	I don't believe it.	It's partly true.	I heard Kettle trying to talk you into running away.	Sounded like you might.	So you made up our minds for us.	Somebody had to.	Without letting us decide for ourselves.	But he kept one horse for his own getaway.	That was for scouting.	Oh, sure.	A likely story.	Ha!	Fine thing to have to believe a turncoat.	Just a minute!	Frank stayed with the rest of us.	What about that varmint?	Lock him up till the fighting starts.	All right.	Get goin'!	Frank, look.	I'm afraid it's your place, Stella.	We can hope they head north.	But we'll be ready.	Right.	Back to your posts, men.	Move along.	Move along!	Sentry?	All clear, Lieutenant.	Keep your eyes open.	What you're trying to do for us now doesn't make up for the bad before.	What bad was that?	You ran out on Texas and the South.	How could you?	I have to live with my conscience.	And it makes you turn traitor against friends and neighbours?	You think your way, I'll think mine.	Got all the guns clean, Lieutenant.	I'm glad you two didn't bust up.	Bust up?	I've got the secret about you being his girl.	Bax, see if the horses are all right.	You told him I was your girl?	Yeah, I...	I had to.	Why?	He saw me with Stella and jumped to a conclusion.	Stella Leathem?	I'm glad I found out, too.	Oh, Ann.	Here's your water and candle.	Wait, Mary, please!	Whatever happens, I want you to know that I was wrong, so wrong.	No, I was wrong.	I guess maybe you were to have anything to do with me.	I should never have believed...	Listen to me, please.	Listen.	Before the war at the square dances, men were so thick around you, a fella couldn't get near without having his toes crushed.	Then the war came along, and all the men in the valley left, except me.	I guess I...	I forgot how lucky I am.	What makes you remember now?	Being here, waiting to die.	We deserve to die!	I do, but not you and the b...	Oh, darling, we've got something to live for now.	Marriage?	Yes.	How?	No-one here can.	I know, darling, I know, but that horse will carry us to where there is one who can.	Oh, Emmett.	Could we?	Yes, darling.	Oh, my darling, I...	I love you so much.	Oh...	The keys, darling.	Unlock the door.	Hurry, darling.	Hurry.	Conover and Gibbons, gardening time.	Your daughter ought to be in bed.	Come on, honey.	I wonder what it's like to have a kid.	One way to find out - marry and settle down.	Me?	New country, new life.	Why not?	Why not?	I knew a shoemaker once who became a violinist.	Hell.	There's a good girl!	Emmett?	Emmett!	Help me, please!	Come back!	Come back!	Mary, what happened?	Oh, Emmett!	Kettle escaped.	She tried to stop him	We'll take her.	No!	Help me, Cora.	No.	No.	You lied for her.	One question - why did you keep the horse here?	I could've led the Indians away before they spotted the place.	They'd have caught you.	Maybe.	Hello?	Hello?	Anyone here?	Amigo, set up three more.	Well, come on!	Make it fast.	These mornings are terribly dry.	Look, I'm no bartender.	I think you are.	We lost the other one.	Tortilla missed.	I do sometimes.	Thank you.	Amigo, how much money you got?	None, I haven't got any.	It's pretty low.	What are you gonna do?	Come over here.	What are you gonna do to me?	Leave me alone!	Put your arms up!	I got nothing...	All I want is to get outta here!	We find out	Let me get down, will ya?	Get them up!	- He is a heavy one!	Let me get down!	Now, there.	Tell me, how much money you got?	None.	I told you, none.	Oh, amigo, I must shoot you for lying.	I'm not lying, I'm not.	I...	Look, my pockets are empty.	Search.	Then I'm gonna shoot you for not having no money!	No, look...	Will you tell your boys to stop this joke and cut me down?	My friend, we're in somewhat of a dilemma.	If you're lying, he has to shoot you.	If you have no money, he has to.	Now, what's it gonna be?	Look, supposing I... supposing I was to tell you where there was gold.	Where's that?	Cut me down.	Why tell us and not keep it yourself?	I couldn't.	There's a bunch of women there, afraid of an Indian attack.	They held me prisoner, I escaped.	They got jewels and gold there.
-Pick it up about here.	-Mm-hmm.	Yeah, the-- the captain and two policemen advanced with something in their hands.	Yes, I can see it now.	It's a white handkerchief tied to a pole, a flag of truce.	If those creatures know what that means, what anything means, no, wait, wait, something's happening.	A humped shape is rising out of the pit.	I can make a small beam of light against a mirror.	What's that?	There's a jet of flames springing from that mirror, and it leaped right at the advancing men.	It strikes them head on.	Good Lord, they're turning to flames!	-OK, nice job.	That's perfect, do it just like that.	-Well, that oughtta scare the daylights out of 'em.	It does me, and I've been rehearsing it for hours.	-You never can tell.	Radio listeners are pretty blase nowadays.	Bill?	-Yes Sir.	-The sequence where you're calling all stations, the CQ call.	-Page 28?	-Yeah.	Now build that a shade more.	You think you're the last man alive on earth.	So let's have a little more desperation, huh?	-I don't wanna ham it up.	-Well, this is pure fantasy.	Play with all the stops out, OK?	-OK.	I'll do that.	-15 mi-- 15 minutes?	-Right.	-OK.	All right, everybody take 10.	Positions at 7:55.	-In October of 1938, the Columbia Broadcasting System	Radio Network consisted of 110 affiliated stations in 44 states.	There was practically no sizable community in America which could not be reached by CBS broadcast.	Thus, from Maine to California and from Canada to the Gulf, listeners were tuned to the Mercury Theatre on that fateful night In the eastern United States, the area closest to the scene of fictitious peril, reaction	was most vivid and violent.	However, it should be remembered that in their behavior, these Easterners we're not unique.	Everywhere emotions and reactions were the same.	Panic struck universally out of the dark but peaceful sky on a night that began quietly enough.	[DOOR BUZZER]	MARY:	Mother, that's Bob.	Will you let him in please?	-Hello Bob.	-Good evening, Mrs. Morgan.	-Come on in.	Mary'll be done in a minute.	-Thank you.	Hello	-Mr.	Morgan.	-Hello Bob.	Nice out?	-Yes Sir, it's swell.	-Gettin' chilly?	-No, it's just right.	Perfect football weather.	-You see the game yesterday?	-You bet I did, 14 to nothing.	-Pretty good team this year, eh?	-Seventh in the national writing.	We oughtta be first too.	We haven't even been scored on yet.	-Those seven iron Dukes.	Think they'll the Rose Bowl?	-Well, I'll tell ya, I think if we get by Syracuse and pitt, we got a good chance.	MARY:	Hi Bob.	-Hi there.	-Sorry to keep you waiting.	-That's OK.	We got plenty of time.	Second show doesn't start for an hour.	-Oh, where are we going?	-I thought maybe they Rialto.	-Oh, what's playing there?	-Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire in Care Free.	You seen it?	-No, but I'd love to.	Good night, Dad.	-Bob, don't keep her out too late.	-No Sir.	MARY:	Good night, Mom.	-Good night, dear.	Night Bob.	-Good night, Mrs. Morgan.	-What's on tonight, Dad?	-Oh, what time is it?	-Oh, getting onto 8.	-Ah, CBS, the Mercury Theatre, NBC	Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy--	-Charlie McCarthy.	I like him.	Let's listen to that.	[PIN BALL NOISES]	-Ya, you know, you take now a punk like this Hitler, all spit and polish, the mob yelling' hail every time he wipes his nose.	A guy like him don't raise an army just for the fun.	Mark my words, there's gonna be trouble, maybe even sooner than ya think.	DICK:	Ah, Hitler's just a big bag of wind.	-I don't know about that now.	Ah, fill this please.	He already grabbed Austria and Czechoslovakia ain't he?	Now he's got his eye on Poland.	-A big bag of wind.	Where everybody made the mistake was, they never should've buckled under him from the beginning.	If they just told him to go jump at the lake, well, what could he do, huh?	Huh?	France on the west, Russia on the East,	Mussolini in the South, why, he can't move a muscle any direction.	-Yeah, he could go up.	-Up?	-Yeah, get all of a sudden from the air anywheres he likes, America even.	-America?	-Sure why not?	-Ah, I'd like to see him try to bomb this country.	-Yeah, you maybe, but not me.	Because he just might get away with it.	I don't want to be nowheres around when the bomb starts fallin'.	-You know, you sound like them Europeans.
[GUN CLICKS]	Do you still say you've never seen this before?	- Well, I--	- Have you seen it, Miss Howard?	- Yes.	- Where?	Didn't you see a shooting stand in that construction shack?	- Yes.	- What was the proposed target?	It had to be someone or some object on the hilltop.	The hilltop is the only place in a direct line with a certain hole in the wall of that construction shack.	Isn't that true, Miss Howard?	I don't know.	There were only two people on that hilltop.	George Lutts and Sybil Granger.	You knew that, didn't you?	I didn't know Mr. Lutts would be there.	But you were certain Mrs. Granger would be.	- Oh, well, she always was.	- I see.	Now, Miss Howard, let's jump a step.	Why did you take that shooting stand apart	- and dump the pieces in a gully?	- I didn't.	But you were seen, Miss Howard.	Where do you think this came from?	Now, I ask you again, Miss Howard.	Why did you take that shooting stand apart?	You must have had some reason.	Did you do it to protect yourself?	- No.	- Then who were you protecting?	No one.	Did you tell someone you had dismantled the stand?	- No.	- Then why were the pieces	- removed from the gully?	- You did that.	Oh, no, Miss Howard.	Someone else did that.	What you see here is purely for the purpose of demonstration.	The actual dismantled stand is in a garage not very far away from here.	Uh...	I don't know what you're talking about.	During the recess, the owner of that garage even ran home to make sure the stand was there.	He wanted to see if I was bluffing.	Well, it was there.	But he had no opportunity to warn you that I built that stand myself.	All right, Miss Howard, let's get down to cases.	Mr. Granger gave you a gun.	The weapon used to murder George Lutts.	You returned a different gun.	You knew Mrs. Granger was going to be on that hilltop.	You took a shooting stand apart, destroying evidence.	If you are not trying to protect someone,	- then you murdered George Lutts.	- No, no.	I didn't.	Uh...	It was an accident.	It was Mrs. Granger.	She was supposed to be the one.	You mean, you deliberately aimed at Mrs. Granger and Lutts got in the way?	No, I didn't say that.	- I didn't shoot Mr. Lutts.	- Then who did?	What are you sitting there for, letting me take the blame?	Come up here, tell them.	He did it.	Herbert.	Herbert Dean.	It was his idea.	He wanted to get rid of Mrs. Granger.	She was the only one blocking the oil deal.	Vinnie, wait, please.	You don't believe her?	Let go of me.	Bailiff, hold that man.	I would have made a million dollars.	He did it.	It was all his idea.	"And again, let me thank you for all you've done on behalf of my wife.	By the time you receive this, we'll be on our way to Mexico for our second honeymoon." It's signed Bruce Granger.	- Mm-hm.	- Women.	I'll never understand them.	Here, she takes the guy back after she almost gets herself killed because of him.	Oh, you're wrong, Paul.	Lutts was the target from the start.	With that shooting stand, Herbert couldn't miss.	Yeah, but Roxy said that--	Oh, Herbert let Roxy think he'd made a mistake so she'd keep on helping him.	[WHEELS SQUEAKING]	Whoa, hold it, hold it.	- What is the idea of this?	- We don't want it.	It belongs to Mr. Mason.	He introduced it in evidence.	And what are we supposed to do with this pile of junk?	- You take it right out of here.	- Hold it, hold it.	It's Mr. Mason's job to dispose of things like this.	I don't have to tell you, counsellor, you're gonna have quite a problem.	The city rubbish collection has strict orders not to pick up trash like this.	Now, I want to be reasonable, Perry.	I can handle the whole thing.	For a fee.	- Oh, that's bribery, Tragg.	- Uh-huh.	But the DA is a friend of mine.	He's not gonna give me any trouble.	You'd like to know how I worked that stunt with the blank cartridge.	That's my price.	Well, if instead of using paper wadding to hold the powder in the blank cartridge, you take some chalk, crimp just enough of it in the end of the shell to let the pressure build up, you'll burn up the powder--	And the explosion will disintegrate the chalk so there's no trace of it.	Oh...	Get me out of here before I use this on myself.	[LAUGHING]
- You have any idea what took place at that meeting?	BECKMEYER:	No, sir.	No, I stayed in the car.	What other services did you render Mr. Davenport?	Well, when he wanted a reputable laboratory to do food analysis,	I put him in touch with Pacific Labs.	Did you ever act as dummy for various bank accounts so that Davenport could juggle funds belonging to his wife?	BECKMEYER:	I didn't know where he got the money.	MASON:	But you did allow yourself to be used for the purpose of opening several bank accounts?	BECKMEYER:	Yes, I did.	I didn't see anything wrong in that.	Were you at any time engaged by Davenport to drive him out of the country?	No, sir.	I have here a statement from the Department of Motor Vehicles which indicates that you own a house trailer.	- Is that true, Mr. Beckmeyer?	- Yes.	Was the late Edward Davenport ever in that trailer?	No, no.	Never.	If an expert were to produce fingerprints,	Davenport's fingerprints, from the inside of that trailer, would you swear on your oath that they were forgeries?	Well, he might have been in there once.	I don't remember for sure.	Mr. Beckmeyer, isn't it a fact that Davenport was in your trailer on the day he died?	Oh, no.	Then where did he get the bacon and eggs?	- In that trailer.	- That's a lie.	And where did he get the liquor?	None was found in his room.	You gave it to him, did you not?	Generously spiked with arsenic.	I tell you, you're wrong.	Then answer this, Mr. Beckmeyer.	If you did not kill Davenport why did you dig that grave two days in advance?	- I didn't.	- What other reason could you have for buying a shovel from the Clarey Hardware Store on that very same day?	Yeah.	Well, the chump was asking for it.	Never got tired of telling me how smart he was.	He was gonna disappear and leave his wife holding the bag.	Everybody would wonder what happened to the body.	It was such a great plan	I figured with a little help from me, it would be perfect.	Guess I was wrong too, huh?	[CROWD MURMURING]	PAUL:	Just a little bit more to the right.	That's fine.	You know, Paul I don't know what we'd do without you.	Don't tell him that, Della.	He'll send us a bill in the morning.	You gotta admit my fees are more reasonable than Beckmeyer's.	I hear there was almost 200 grand in his trailer.	Two hundred and ten to be exact.	You know, the thing that puzzles me is Uncle Charlie.	- Who did him in?	- Ed Davenport.	He wanted his wife to be an heiress.	So he could steal her blind and then disappear.	Mm-hm.	That's when Mr. Beckmeyer came in.	He was the guiding genius of the plot.	I may not be very smart, but I still don't see how you suspected Beckmeyer in the first place.	That telephone call you took in Davenport's office.	"Unit 13, Desert Motel, Bakerstown."	That's right.	That call was obviously for Rita Norge.	Yeah?	She had over $17,000 belonging to Davenport, remember?	If Davenport did make the call, why then--	Then Beckmeyer must have.	He wanted to get his hot little hands on the money.	So Beckmeyer was responsible for those blank pages in the letter.	No, no, that was Davenport's idea.	And a very provocative one.	He made sure the police would believe that letter had been tampered with.	Well, you gotta give Davenport credit.	He wasn't anybody's fool.	He just never should've hired Beckmeyer.	What's wrong with this picture, anyway?	It's Beckmeyer's influence, Della.	Just a case of a slightly crooked frame.	[MASON CHUCKLING]
There wasn't a sound or a movement on this street as I came along it.	Nothing, until...	But it must have happened right under your nose, man.	Not seconds after you left him.	What's the matter with you?	I don't know.	I don't know.	Blimey, Sarge, he must live hereabouts.	That's certain.	But where?	Where?	Nobody saw, nobody heard, nothing.	All right.	You and the others spread out.	Search all the buildings on both sides of the street.	Question everybody.	Pull them out of bed if need be.	Look into cupboards and behind curtains.	Don't accept excuses.	Here we are, Sir.	Thank you, Ben.	Things have come to a pretty pass and no mistake.	When a man or woman walks out alone these days, does nothing less than take his life in his hands, and that's the truth.	They'll catch him soon.	Any time now.	What makes you so certain?	When a man can kills you or me, that's one thing.	But when a copper gets killed, that's another story.	Then all the other coppers realize maybe they're next.	They won't rest till the murderer is caught.	See?	What will you have, sir?	Same as usual.	All right.	Don't even know what this creature is.	Man, beast or devil.	Well, I know I shan't run out alone again.	He's mad.	Unbalanced somehow.	Don't you agree?	Possibly.	Probably.	But there's something else about this.	Something obvious.	Something right in front of us.	You see, when there's something right before our eyes, we don't stop to ask how it got there.	Like the ham in that sandwich.	It's just there.	We don't think of it at all.	Much less stop to say, "How did it get there?"	How did it get there, by the by?	Well, somebody put it there, I dare say.	Yes.	That's right.	Somebody did.	Sergeant?	Is that you, Sergeant?	Oh, it's you.	Yes.	Well, seen anything of the murderer?	No, nor has anybody else.	I doubt if they ever will.	Oh, I don't know.	I've been thinking about it and an idea came to me just now.	Oh, really?	Yes.	Came to me all of a sudden, just a little while ago.	Made me feel as though we've been blind.	It's been staring us in the face.	Oh, has it?	Well, if you're so sure, why not give us the benefit of this idea?	I'm going to.	We were talking in the bar now about things that are staring us in the face.	Things that we don't think about to question.	Like the ham in a sandwich, you know.	We never wonder how it got there.	But somebody said, "Well, if it's there,	"somebody must have put it there."	And that was it.	Now, if four people have been murdered, somebody must have been there to murder them, you see.	Well, of course someone was there.	We all know that.	Question is, who?	Yes.	The answer seems so simple now.	But there's one thing I don't understand.	One little thing I'd like to clear up.	I mean, the motive.	As man to man, tell me, Sergeant Ottermole,	just why did you kill those inoffensive people?	Well, to tell you the truth, Mr. Newspaperman,	I don't know.	In fact, I've been worried about it myself.	But, I've got an idea, just like you.	Everybody knows we can't control the workings of our minds, don't they?	Ideas come without our asking.	But everybody's supposed to be able to control the workings of his body.	Why?	Our arms, our legs, our heads, aren't completely ours.	We don't make them.	And couldn't ideas come into our limbs, just like ideas come into our minds?	Huh?	Couldn't ideas live in nerve and muscle as well as in the brain?	And couldn't it be that parts of our bodies aren't really us?	And ideas could come into those parts all of a sudden like ideas come into	my hands?	Are you all right?	Are you all right?	Yes.	I never saw anything so quick or anyone so strong.	I thought I was done for, for a moment.	I know.	We were following as close as we dared.	It's a good thing we got the constable here in time.	The sergeant.	I can't believe it.	His hands were like iron.	Yes, his hands.	Did you hear what he said about his hands?	He said ideas came into his hands.	He must have been insane.	Yes	I suppose so.	Ow!	Stop it!	Stop it!	I'll tie it myself.	It won't take long.	I'm sure I'll be ready by next week's show.	And you be ready, too.
By the way,	I find it remarkable how you gentleman of the press arrived at the spot so quickly.	Well, I'm a roving reporter now and I...	That's where I happened to be roving at the time.	Good night, Sergeant.	Good night.	Time's up.	All right.	Buy a flower for the young lady, sir?	Good evening, Sir.	It's been a long day.	Business ain't been so good.	And I was having a bit of a rest	Good morning, Sergeant.	Have you seen The Guardian?	No, and I don't want to.	Thank you very much.	So, you've made no progress with the old flower woman either.	Mr. Summers, how about a cup of tea?	Thanks.	A little sugar if you please.	You know, I had a theory about this at the start.	The Whybrows, that is.	Since it seemed like there was no reason for killing them at all,	I thought maybe the reason why there seemed to be no reason was because there isn't any reason.	You see what I mean?	He made a mistake, thought he was killing somebody else, went to the wrong house or something.	Eh, Sarge?	Well, of course it's no good now.	He wouldn't make two mistakes.	And now we've got two sets of killing and no reason at all.	Doesn't seem to make sense somehow.	Wonder what the motive could be?	Maybe there wasn't any.	Oh, there was a motive all right.	You can count on that.	There has to be a motive, you know.	No, no.	No.	There've been crimes, murders, without motives before.	Oh, come now, you don't mean no motive at all?	That's right, there have.	Neil Cream for one.	And William Palmer for another, eh, Sergeant?	That's right.	He was another.	I say, if you're up against a man like that, you're in real trouble, aren't you?	Never know where he'll strike next or when.	Or what he's like or anything.	Let's visualize a man.	He appears ordinary, but yet he isn't.	Nothing so old-fashioned as a conscience bothers him, yet he has three murders to his credit.	And I'm sure he's sitting somewhere now calmly drinking a cup of tea, just as we are	and smiling to himself because the police are such fools.	He's got something to smile about and that's a fact.	But he isn't an Englishman.	He's a foreigner.	They're all around this district, you know.	Why not an Englishman?	'Cause we British haven't got the nature for a thing like that.	Nor the talent for it either.	One of these foreign johnnies.	They know tricks that we've never even heard of and wouldn't practice if we had.	Well, whoever he is and wherever he's from, he's a man to reckon with.	There's no escaping that.	You can't admire him certainly.	But you have to admit he's clever.	Do you realize what he's done?	Yes.	He strangled three helpless, innocent people, that's what.	Oh, it's much more than that.	Have you been around this district lately?	The people only talk about one subject.	The children aren't allowed to play in the streets.	Women do their shopping before dark and bolt their windows and doors at night.	They watch anxiously for their husbands' return from work.	Men eye each other, even familiar faces, and think, "It might be him. "	This one man with a pair of hands has terrified this whole community and made them realize that the laws are powerful only so long as they are obeyed.	The police are potent so long as they are feared.	You seem so positive we're dealing with just one man.	Would you say there were two men, Sergeant, like that?	Two men in the same place and at the same time?	No, I'll own it seems unlikely.	That's right.	This is a singular man.	A man who comes along once in a lifetime probably.	This one man with one pair of hands has held the entire police force and Scotland Yard helpless with nowhere to turn.	Aye, he's done that.	Part of it, at least.	But as for having us powerless, with nowhere to turn, that's something else again.	It is?	You have your informers out, I'm sure, in the pubs and the tea rooms.	But aside from that, what have you done?	What can you do?	He's made some mistake somewhere.	Or he'll make one.	You can bank on that.	And we'll be watching, never fear.	Maybe he won't, though.	What then?	He will.	They always do.	Hmm, but they don't.	Now that's the thing.	What about Dr. Crippen?	And George Joseph Smith?	You've heard of them, Sergeant?	Aye, I have.	Well, those people killed and were discovered only years afterwards by accident or belated confession.
You or Scotland Yard.	Now, look here, you can't expect us to tell you every move we make, you know.	Then the criminal would know what we're doing, too, wouldn't he?	Come on now, Sergeant, we're talking about progress and you can't report anything because you haven't made any.	Have you?	Time, gentleman.	Please drink up and pay up.	All out.	By the way,	I find it remarkable how you gentleman of the press arrived at the spot so quickly.	Well, I'm a roving reporter now and I...	That's where I happened to be roving at the time.	Good night, Sergeant.	Good night.	Time's up.	All right.	Buy a flower for the young lady, sir?	Good evening, Sir.	It's been a long day.	Business ain't been so good.	And I was having a bit of a rest	Good morning, Sergeant.	Have you seen The Guardian?	No, and I don't want to.	Thank you very much.	So, you've made no progress with the old flower woman either.	Mr. Summers, how about a cup of tea?	Thanks.	A little sugar if you please.	You know, I had a theory about this at the start.	The Whybrows, that is.	Since it seemed like there was no reason for killing them at all,	I thought maybe the reason why there seemed to be no reason was because there isn't any reason.	You see what I mean?	He made a mistake, thought he was killing somebody else, went to the wrong house or something.	Eh, Sarge?	Well, of course it's no good now.	He wouldn't make two mistakes.	And now we've got two sets of killing and no reason at all.	Doesn't seem to make sense somehow.	Wonder what the motive could be?	Maybe there wasn't any.	Oh, there was a motive all right.	You can count on that.	There has to be a motive, you know.	No, no.	No.	There've been crimes, murders, without motives before.	Oh, come now, you don't mean no motive at all?	That's right, there have.	Neil Cream for one.	And William Palmer for another, eh, Sergeant?	That's right.	He was another.	I say, if you're up against a man like that, you're in real trouble, aren't you?	Never know where he'll strike next or when.	Or what he's like or anything.	Let's visualize a man.	He appears ordinary, but yet he isn't.	Nothing so old-fashioned as a conscience bothers him, yet he has three murders to his credit.	And I'm sure he's sitting somewhere now calmly drinking a cup of tea, just as we are	and smiling to himself because the police are such fools.	He's got something to smile about and that's a fact.	But he isn't an Englishman.	He's a foreigner.	They're all around this district, you know.	Why not an Englishman?	'Cause we British haven't got the nature for a thing like that.	Nor the talent for it either.	One of these foreign johnnies.	They know tricks that we've never even heard of and wouldn't practice if we had.	Well, whoever he is and wherever he's from, he's a man to reckon with.	There's no escaping that.	You can't admire him certainly.	But you have to admit he's clever.	Do you realize what he's done?	Yes.	He strangled three helpless, innocent people, that's what.	Oh, it's much more than that.	Have you been around this district lately?	The people only talk about one subject.	The children aren't allowed to play in the streets.	Women do their shopping before dark and bolt their windows and doors at night.	They watch anxiously for their husbands' return from work.	Men eye each other, even familiar faces, and think, "It might be him. "	This one man with a pair of hands has terrified this whole community and made them realize that the laws are powerful only so long as they are obeyed.	The police are potent so long as they are feared.	You seem so positive we're dealing with just one man.	Would you say there were two men, Sergeant, like that?	Two men in the same place and at the same time?	No, I'll own it seems unlikely.	That's right.	This is a singular man.	A man who comes along once in a lifetime probably.	This one man with one pair of hands has held the entire police force and Scotland Yard helpless with nowhere to turn.	Aye, he's done that.	Part of it, at least.	But as for having us powerless, with nowhere to turn, that's something else again.	It is?	You have your informers out, I'm sure, in the pubs and the tea rooms.	But aside from that, what have you done?	What can you do?	He's made some mistake somewhere.
That's right.	This is a singular man.	A man who comes along once in a lifetime probably.	This one man with one pair of hands has held the entire police force and Scotland Yard helpless with nowhere to turn.	Aye, he's done that.	Part of it, at least.	But as for having us powerless, with nowhere to turn, that's something else again.	It is?	You have your informers out, I'm sure, in the pubs and the tea rooms.	But aside from that, what have you done?	What can you do?	He's made some mistake somewhere.	Or he'll make one.	You can bank on that.	And we'll be watching, never fear.	Maybe he won't, though.	What then?	He will.	They always do.	Hmm, but they don't.	Now that's the thing.	What about Dr. Crippen?	And George Joseph Smith?	You've heard of them, Sergeant?	Aye, I have.	Well, those people killed and were discovered only years afterwards by accident or belated confession.	Now, there must be many others who have never been discovered.	Now, you say the murderer is always caught because all the ones we know of have been caught.	But think of the others.	The ones we don't know about yet.	You seem to have made a great study of crime, Mr. Newspaperman.	I have.	Tell me, Sergeant, in your professional opinion, do you really believe you can catch this man if he doesn't want you to?	Oh, aye.	We'll catch him.	Because we have to.	We've doubled our force the day after the first murder.	And now we have four men where we usually have one.	We are just hoping he will try again.	If he does, we've got him.	I see.	Of course, he might try somewhere else the next time.	You can't have quadrupled your force throughout the entire city.	That's true.	But he might just be the type of man who would like to show us he could kill again beneath our noses and still get away with it.	Hmm?	Bye for now.	Good day.	Well, hello there, Jimmy.	Would you like to go across?	Right then, here we go.	Here we are.	Now, up.	Well?	Not a thing.	Keep a sharp lookout every second.	That's what it takes, you know.	Can't let up because we've had four days with nothing new.	I only spoke to Petersen.	It was 9:32 by my watch.	And you found him at 9:35.	That's when you blew your whistle.	What happened?	Another one?	Yes.	Got one of their own men this time.	It's Petersen.	I can't believe it.	Johnson, take over.	Make way.	Make way, now.	You heard nothing?	You saw no sign of anybody at all?	Nobody.	Nobody.	Not a blinking soul.	Except Jimmy, the blind bootblack.	But it can't be him.	There wasn't a sound or a movement on this street as I came along it.	Nothing, until...	But it must have happened right under your nose, man.	Not seconds after you left him.	What's the matter with you?	I don't know.	I don't know.	Blimey, Sarge, he must live hereabouts.	That's certain.	But where?	Where?	Nobody saw, nobody heard, nothing.	All right.	You and the others spread out.	Search all the buildings on both sides of the street.	Question everybody.	Pull them out of bed if need be.	Look into cupboards and behind curtains.	Don't accept excuses.	Here we are, Sir.	Thank you, Ben.	Things have come to a pretty pass and no mistake.	When a man or woman walks out alone these days, does nothing less than take his life in his hands, and that's the truth.	They'll catch him soon.	Any time now.	What makes you so certain?	When a man can kills you or me, that's one thing.	But when a copper gets killed, that's another story.	Then all the other coppers realize maybe they're next.	They won't rest till the murderer is caught.	See?	What will you have, sir?	Same as usual.	All right.	Don't even know what this creature is.	Man, beast or devil.	Well, I know I shan't run out alone again.	He's mad.	Unbalanced somehow.	Don't you agree?	Possibly.	Probably.	But there's something else about this.	Something obvious.	Something right in front of us.	You see, when there's something right before our eyes, we don't stop to ask how it got there.	Like the ham in that sandwich.	It's just there.	We don't think of it at all.	Much less stop to say, "How did it get there?"	How did it get there, by the by?	Well, somebody put it there, I dare say.	Yes.	That's right.	Somebody did.	Sergeant?	Is that you, Sergeant?	Oh, it's you.	Yes.	Well, seen anything of the murderer?	No, nor has anybody else.
I want you always beside me	A love like ours must be...	Made for you and for me...	Return, won't you return my love...	For my love is yours	I'll kill the rabbit!	Arise storms!	North winds blow, south winds blow!	Typhoons, Hurricanes...	Earthquakes!	Smog!	Flash lightning!	Strike the rabbit!	What have I done?	I've killed the rabbit...	Poor little bunny...	Poor little rabbit...	Well, what did you expect in an opera...?	A happy ending?
You humiliated me.	After you said you loved me.	But forget it.	If you want to break it off, that's fine.	If you want to break it off, that's fine.	All right, then.	It's all over and done between us.	Not so fast.	But... after we got together, there was one thing I was counting on.	What was that?	I was praying you'd rescue me from this life.	Sweep me away from that husband and uncle of mine.	Why wait to be swept?	You can take care of yourself.	Why not take off?	Well, you know, women are women.	It's harder for us than for men.	Say, Sutekichi.	Let's scratch each other's back here.	What do you want me to do?	You're crazy about Okayo, right?	I know all about it.	So that's why you beat her up.	You try that again!	Oh, just wait.	Get her out of your head and listen to me.	If you want her, you can have her... all tied up with a ribbon.	But I want you to help me in exchange.	Do something about that landlord of mine.	A helluva scheme.	Your husband's six feet under, I've been banished, and you're free as a bird.	Why would they banish you?	You're not likely to screw up that way.	Come on.	It's for Okayo's sake.	With me, she'll be black and blue.	You bitch!	Listen here.	I've got it tough, too.	The sight of her reminds me that she stole you, and I just...	I can't help myself.	The nerve.	You witch!	Simmer down.	Here I am, telling it like it is.	That husband has been sucking me dry for four years now.	And he's got his eye on Okayo, too.	Just think about it.	He hardly deserves your pity.	It's not murder to squash ticks and lice.	You could talk your way around anything.	Haven't I been clear enough?	Even an idiot should get it.	I've heard enough, damn it!	Get out!	I suggest you mull it over.	What the hell are you doing?	Spying like a peeping Tom.	Just... the two of you?	All nice and cozy.	I knew it.	You bitch!	Whore!	I can't believe myself.	At my age...	You shamlIess hussy!	Go on.	Get out.	Scram!	You're the one who should scram.	Get out.	Get out.	Don't make me laugh.	You don't give me orders.	Who's there?	Oh, it's you.	Just me.	What were you up to there?	Did I break a rule?	But I thought you'd left.	It's cold out there.	Murder on us old folks.	So, you heard?	Well, I'm not deaf.	But you sure are one lucky man.	Why's that?	Don't you think I yawned at exactly the right moment?	That was a close call.	You were just about to strangle that guy, you know.	That's right.	I surely would have.	Just like that.	The spur of the moment and it's done.	The voice of experience.	You listen to me carefully.	This, too, all boils down to women.	Considering my looks, I've known my share of gals.	A gal for every hair that's abandoned my head.	By the way, you stay clear of that woman.	The thing is, even considering that husband of hers, she's hardly a damsel in distress.	Hey, Gramps.	Listen, old men have more wisdom than a turtle has shells.	Shut up and listen.	If you're sweet on someone, you take her by the hand and scamper the hell out of here.	But what do you care about me?	That's right.	Time to check on our invalid.	She die?	At last.	And where's her husband?	Drinking home brew, no doubt.	I'd better tell him.	I'll go with you.	I can do without corpses.	You scared?	Not my thing.	Gramps!	I remember now.	Won't you listen?	""The moon outshines the very bonfires where we roast our fish, hazy in the spring sky.	The chill breeze intoxicates.	Drifting contentedly, as a solitary wakeful crow wings its way home, along the riverbank dewdrops on an oar yield treasure.	A hundred silver coins the unexpected boon.	That's the spirit.	Verily, is it a spring night?	Better the river than the Western sea.	The faIllen whore brings better fortune.	unlike a mound of pennies, the silver coins come wrapped in cloth.	What good luck, so early in spring."	You're high as a kite.	Okayo.	Where'd the old man go?	This place's deserted.	I'm taking off.	Come spring, I'm going.	And just where to?	To find that temple.	There's a temple that cures drunks.	Atop some mountain, where the sun always shines.	A really grand temple.	That's where...	I'll purge that alcohol poisoning clear out of my bitol organs.	And then I'm going to turn over a brand new leaf.	Listen, she's dead.	That's impossible.	It's true.	See for yourself.	See what?	The tinker's wife is dead.
Does Ah Lun invite you to drink?	Not everyday recently.	Let me invite you.	But you must act like a dog.	Bark on the floor.	You used to be a knight.	It's funny for a knight to bark.	I bark.	But it's not funny.	You should have asked me to bark when I was a knight.	Good say.	Now Nobel is the same as we are.	Did you really a Nobel?	I met Nobel for a few times.	It can't be imagined.	I used to live very luxuriously.	Although a knight is poor, he belongs to his lord.	Doesn't need to work.	With maids assist to bath.	Lying.	Nightingales know nothing.	Who demand money from nightingales?	Life is not steady.	Should help each other.	New comers, shut up.	I won't forgive you if you say it again.	Wanna kill me?	Where is the knife?	Just joking, I don't have a knife.	You have a sharpiess knife.	What a shame.	Come on, I invite you to drink.	It's great.	Old man, you are not a good man.	It's hard to tell.	You become mad again.	What if I became mad?	I was just released from the police.	Not allowed to stay here ever.	Another mad guy.	I let you control me, come on.	Mrs. Landlord is coming.	You come again.	I asked you not to come.	You always say something bad about me.	You'll be kicked out of here.	Don't let him in again.	I am not a guard.	Don't be proud, you haven't paid the rent.	How much do you owe me?	I didn't reckon.	Now we can reckon.	Bitch, I'm not scared of you.	Who are you?	I'm from the village.	Do you stay here for good?	Must pay for it first.	Pay it later.	I take this as deposit.	He's not here.	I haven't asked you.	But you had a look at his room.	I was to see if it's clean.	Too dirty house will be destroyed.	Ask the dirty man to leave.	Then you'll die of hunger.	A beggar won't owe the rent.	Look at you.	Are you a turtle?	Clean it up.	Did sister come?	She brought the old man here.	Was he here when she came?	Sai?	He was here.	But he didn't talk to Ka.	Why did you say this?	Hurry up to clean.	Bitch.	Is she always angry like this?	Because of her husband.	She doesn't get well with her husband.	She came here for her lover.	She didn't see him so that she was angry.	However, Siu...	Why does she treat her sister as a barrier?	For someone said Sai loved Ka.	It doesn't seem untrue.	Do you clean it up for me?	I need to drink.	Drunk and then cry?	Sometimes she needs to cry it out to make comfortable.	You'd better tell me your feeling.	Better to say it out.	You new comer wanna tease me.	The residents here...	Let me clean it up.	I've never seen you before.	It's not possible for you to meet everyone.	I know all the people under my management.	So, your management area is so small.	Although it's small, the residents are troublesome.	- Where is the mop?	- Out door.	Lui was drunk again last night.	Shout on the road.	Many people watched so I took him to the station.	How about Sai?	Nothing special.	I've heard quite a few things about him.	You'd better not to tell me lies.	Why do I tell lies?	People like gossips.	Say Sai and Bun are having an affair.	And also say I'm this and that.	I'm only Bun's uncle, not her father.	You get married with Ah Lun early.	Don't pretend, everyone knows it.	So pity, it's so weak.	Where do you sleep?	You are a good man.	How come you stay outside alone?	I was kicked out.	No way, Bun and Ka...	Stop.	Ka is so pity.	How come the sisters are doing that.	Since they are so healthy, eating too much.	- Old man.	- What?	You are a really good man.	Like a rock in a river.	So smooth.	My husband always beat me, like beating cats and dogs.	Don't blame.	Chess mate.	Really, I am never full.	What did I do wrong last night?	You have a hard life.	Don't gamble.	Once again.	Old man, will it be like this in the hell?	No, there's calm in the hell.	Just be patient.	You are liar, I saw it.	You saw it wrong.	I saw it, don't gamble.	Lost 100 dollars and shout.	Said himself of a rich man.	There're rules in gambling.	Why?	Don't you know why?	I've never heard of it.	Don't be angry, try to think...	They cannot live in order.	But gambling needs to be in order.	You are seen through by others.	What a shame.	Useless since I was born.	You lost it again?	Made 105 cents.	Of which I made 5 cents.	5 cents are not enough to take a ferry across the river.	Let's drink.	You come along, old man.	I'd like to see you drunk.	My face will only become red.
I had a palanquin with crests on it.	Don't tell lies.	Crested curtains hung in my stable where five horses...	Wooden horses?	I'll beat you to death.	Samurai don't beat people to death.	They simply kill.	She has a point.	You think I'm a liar, too?	What I said was true...	I was really a...	Now you know what it is like when no one believes you.	You're talking about your dreams.	I'm not.	I have proof here... in writing.	Throw it away.	Forget about your crested palanquin.	What good would it do now?	Osen!	Have you heard anything of Okayo lately?	No.	No one knows where she went after she was released.	Sutekichi and Osugi are cutting each others throats.	But Sutekichi is no match for Osugi.	He'll be banished.	But it was an accident.	He'll get a light sentence.	I wish every man was banished from the town.	I'll kill myself!	She is not the kind to kill herself.	Someone should punish her.	That's right.	She has no manners.	The drum is mended.	Where's the owner?	Have some sake.	You're yourself again.	Leave him alone.	I'm being awfully nice...	I'm talking like the old man.	You're nice whenever you're drunk.	I sometimes get frightened when I'm drinking.	A chill runs down my spine.	What will become of me?	Of us all?	Stop worrying.	What will be, will be.	I'm worried about Osen.	I have no one else to feed me.	Tsugaru!	Pray for me.	Please!	Please!	I beg of you.	Pray for yourself.	I'm leaving.	Where to?	You crazy idiot!	You're wearing your wife's coat.	I've been looking for you...	searched every tavern.	Take out the dried squid.	My hands are full.	Leave a bottle on the floor and take out the squid.	How clever!	Look!	We have a very clever man here.	All crooks are clever.	They can't afford to be stupid.	Where are the others?	Come out.	Here's some sake for you.	You're throwing away your earnings again.	I'll waste my money on sake.	We're doing the same thing every day.	We wake up in the morning, go to sleep at night.	I want to entertain.	If I were rich, I'd open a big tavern.	Where you could drink and be merry... absolutely free of charge.	The penniless would be welcome.	If I were that rich, you could share half my fortune.	Why not all?	Empty my purse?	All right.	I have a piece of silver here.	I'll lose it all for you.	It's freezing.	I'm all wet.	You might as well wet your throat.	But don't drink too much.	Sake can be poison.	Strange.	You look like an ordinary man when you're drunk.	Is my drum mended?	Handle it more gently.	You're a wild one.	I'll arrest you.	You're no longer a police runner.	You were thrown out of office.	You're no police runner.	You're nobody's uncle.	Just a confectioner's husband.	One of your nieces is in jail, the other dead.	Dead?	Okayo is missing, that's all.	What's the difference?	You have no niece.	You're nobody's uncle.	Why did you leave me behind?	Have some sake.	Let's drink and be merry!	Go to sleep.	Calm down.	Why don't you join us?	Did you cut your arm off?	Certainly not.	I'm sprinkling the miracle water.	It will cure the wound.	I'm sorry for you.	What would you do if you lost your arm?	Your arms and legs are your rice winners.	Drink it.	What else can you do?	You're all here.	A storm is raging outside.	It's started hailing, too.	Is my man here?	You're wearing my coat again.	And you're drunk.	It's Tatsu's treat.	I needed it.	It's very cold.	Then why don't you come home and go to sleep?	A good idea.	Why must you always bully him?	It serves him right.	I married him, because I thought I could profit by it.	And you were right.	Now the landlord's house is yours including the furniture.	When I married him, he worked for the law.	Now he's lost his job and started drinking.	Unokichi!	You've been talking behind my back.	I said you were a real woman.	Plenty of meat...	But no brains.	You told people that I beat my man.	I saw you catch him by the hair and drag him about.	So I thought you'd beat him, too.	You rascal!	Must you tell all you see?	I don't think my man would be glad to hear it either.	No wonder he's taken to drinking.	Understand?	No!	Have a good time!	Come on!	Drink.	You can't sleep like this.	Let's make merry all through the night.	Perhaps I need some sake, too.	Money can buy anything.	You can even buy the blessing of Buddha.	Alas!	I have no money.	I wish it would rain gold.	The Actor hanged himself beside the cliff.
Siu.	Anything about Ka then?	No one knows after she's released.	Disappeared.	Whose mistake is it?	Of course Bun won, Sai was sentenced to death.	That's accident, it won't make a death sentence.	Animals.	It's better for all men to be sentenced to death.	I want to die.	She won't commit suicide.	Must have someone give her a lesson.	She's not in order.	Ready, however...	Drink a cup.	You are used to here.	Say again.	Don't bother him.	I am good today.	The same as the old man.	You become a good man when you drink.	Sometimes I am scared when I drink.	Feeling cool at the back.	Don't know about the future.	Forget it, let it be.	Don't know how's Siu.	Since we rely on her.	Chun.	Bless for me by the way.	Bless for me by the way.	Do your own thing.	I have to go.	To where?	Stupid.	"You are a tiger, with a tiger print cloth."	You wore your wife's clothes.	I have been to every bar to look for you.	You help me to get the squid.	I have no hand to get.	Put down a bottle to spare a hand.	So clever, he's so clever.	Being unclever can't be a liar.	"Tiger with bamboo, bamboo with soldier, orchid..."	Everyone comes, I pay for the drinks.	You spent all the savings again.	Stop, I wan to finish it.	Anyway everyday is the same.	Wake up in the mornings, sleep at nights.	Come, I'll be the host.	If I had money, I'd open a free bar.	Free drinks and free meals.	Even the broke persons come.	And then to share half the wealth with you.	What not to give it now.	To spend all the money?	Great.	Two dollars and 40 cents.	Lose all for you tomorrow.	Very cold, the feet are all wet.	By the way make the throat wet.	But you can't drink too much, the alcohol is toxic.	But you look like human when you are drunk.	Is the drum repaired?	Shouldn't use the iron rod to beat.	Right, where is my iron rod?	Forget it, you are not a sergeant.	You are fired.	You are not a sergeant, nor uncle.	Only the boss of a candy shop.	One of your nieces is in jail, one is dead.	Bull shit, Ka is only disappeared.	It's not the same.	A person without a niece is not an uncle.	If you stay, I quit.	Have a drink, sing a song.	Sleep at night.	It's OK, you come along.	Need to sleep.	Did you chop your hand?	The hand is not a vegetable.	I put some precious water, perhaps it doesn't need to be chopped.	You are also pity.	What to do without a hand?	Hands and foot are the tools of living.	Drink, there's no other way.	There's strong wind and rain outside.	With some snow.	Is my husband here?	You dress my coat again.	And drunk again.	It's Sun to pay the bill.	And the weather is cold.	Cold weather makes people go home to sleep.	That's good.	Why are you so angry to him?	Only this way to this man.	I thought of some benefits when I married him.	Haven't you had any benefits?	You have had all Luk's assets.	I married him since he was a police.	Can't be imagined that he's fired and got addicted to alcohol.	Liu.	Someone said you talked about me.	I said you were the sample of women.	All fat in the body.	Without a brain.	Why did you say I beat my husband?	I saw you catch his hairs so that I thought you beat him.	You chick should pretend not seeing it.	Neither my husband wanted to be talked about.	That's why he drank a lot.	Understand?	Don't understand.	You really can talk.	You sleep well.	Go to there and drink.	Anyway you can't sleep, have some wines.	OK.	So I drink.	"Money can do anything."	"Money can make Buddha see."	"Unfortunately I am broke."	"It's great if the sky drops some gold."	The old man died of hanging.	So bad.	Stupid.
Said she'd bring her right home.	Brother Sutekichi, gimme five pennies.	Stop it with the five-penny thing.	You've gotta think big.	Hey, Brother Sutekichi, front us some silver, won't you?	Better fork over now, before you hit me for a whole silver coin.	There.	How magnificent.	A thief is a poor man's best friend.	You just rake it in, without lifting a finger.	Lift a finger?	If work made life easy, he'd do it.	Us, too.	But that's hardly the way of the world.	Danjuro, let's go get a drink.	Hey, consider me on board.	I can drink my fill.	How's the old lady doing?	Seems like her time's...	Watching you work, I'd say there's no point to that scraping at all.	What am I supposed to do, then?	Nothing.	Then how will I eat?	You'll get by, like the others.	I may be down, but I'm a craftsman.	Not like this crew.	Don't tell me you don't think I'll make it out of here.	I'll get out.	Tear off my limbs and I'll crawl out.	Just you watch.	Soon as the old lady dies...	It's only been six months since I landed here, but it feels more like five or six years.	What the hell would you know?	Talk about the pot calling the kettle black!	I let you rattle on and listen to you!	Hey, Okayo.	What?	A stranger?	Pleasure to make your acquaintance.	Says he'll settle here till spring.	Where's my spot?	This one's available.	That's just fine and dandy.	For an old geezer like me, any warm spot is paradise.	Strange old geezer, huh, Okayo?	A long way better than your lot.	Hardly a board to be found.	By the way, tinker man, you should take better care of your wife.	She's not long for the world.	I know that.	That's fine, then.	Come pick her up, then.	Hey, Okayo.	I've got something for you.	Look.	Real tortoiseshell.	- No, thanks.	- Why not?	Ask yourself that question.	What's her problem?	She won't give me the time of day.	She's a tough one.	She doesn't care about my feelings.	What feelings are those?	I really feel bad for her.	I can't let her be.	More's the pity.	Screw you.	I really feel sorry for her.	No telling what'll happen to her here.	You've fallen for her hard.	But listen:	You watch out.	Osugi finds out, it'll be hell to pay.	That bitch wouldn't think twice about murder.	Even her own sister.	Quit yapping!	It's bad luck.	Just wait and see.	Quit wailing, Gramps.	I told you to stop!	Doesn't please you?	No sour notes for me.	That's a shame.	I thought I carried a fine tune.	If you say so.	You're a foxy old geezer.	Hey, my lord, that candy lady buy you a drink?	These days, it's not a sure thing anymore.	Want me to buy you one?	I'd be ever in your debt.	But first, circle three times and yelp.	What the...	Just get on all fours and yelp.	Time was, you were a swaggering, well-armed samurai.	Yeah, so what?	That's why.	Do me good to make you yelp.	All right!	I'll yelp!	But listen up, bonehead.	The shape I'm in now, we're about even.	What's the good of making me yelp now?	You should've made me do it before.	He's got a point.	There's reason in his reasoning.	What's past is past.	Down here, we've no Lords or Excellencies.	But let me ask you:	Were you really a lord once?	I've seen two or three lords in my time.	But it seems to me, for a lord, your fall from grace landed you flat on your ass.	You wouldn't know, but... in the old days I lived in the lap of luxury.	As the shogun's vassal,	I was in the inner circle, no matter how poor.	From first light to last, I ordered everybody around.	In the bath, I never washed or dried.	My maid took care of all that.	Liar!	What the hell, you two-bit whore!	And who hounds that whore for pennies?	This world is filled with ups and downs.	Take turns lending a helping hand in times of need.	That's as it should be.	Hey, stranger, hold your tongue.	Watch out or you won't even see me draw!	With bare hands?	Your sword being...	- He's got a point.	- Excellent.	I was just joking.	I've got no sword.	Liar.	Here's your blade.	'Course these days the thing won't even split wood.	That's what you call adding insult to injury.	My lord, follow me.	I'll buy you a drink.	I'm grateful.	Gramps, you're quite the scoundrel, aren't you?	Never judge a book by its cover.	- Hey, my lord.	- Coming.	The pair of you...	You're in a fine mood.	Don't mind if I am.	"There once was a triangular fellow, who stood on a square platform, playing his song..."
What's past is past.	Down here, we've no Lords or Excellencies.	But let me ask you:	Were you really a lord once?	I've seen two or three lords in my time.	But it seems to me, for a lord, your fall from grace landed you flat on your ass.	You wouldn't know, but... in the old days I lived in the lap of luxury.	As the shogun's vassal,	I was in the inner circle, no matter how poor.	From first light to last, I ordered everybody around.	In the bath, I never washed or dried.	My maid took care of all that.	Liar!	What the hell, you two-bit whore!	And who hounds that whore for pennies?	This world is filled with ups and downs.	Take turns lending a helping hand in times of need.	That's as it should be.	Hey, stranger, hold your tongue.	Watch out or you won't even see me draw!	With bare hands?	Your sword being...	- He's got a point.	- Excellent.	I was just joking.	I've got no sword.	Liar.	Here's your blade.	'Course these days the thing won't even split wood.	That's what you call adding insult to injury.	My lord, follow me.	I'll buy you a drink.	I'm grateful.	Gramps, you're quite the scoundrel, aren't you?	Never judge a book by its cover.	- Hey, my lord.	- Coming.	The pair of you...	You're in a fine mood.	Don't mind if I am.	"There once was a triangular fellow, who stood on a square platform, playing his song..."	Unokichi!	You're on a roll again!	So what if I am?	I'm fresh out of the slammer.	"If you ever set foot in these parts again..."	Screw you!	My, my.	This young man is clearly out of his mind.	- He's a complete lunatic.	- What the...	Slice me, dice me, have your way!	I don't give a damn!	The landlady's here.	You again.	Hello.	Welcome.	I told you never to set foot in here again.	Aren't you gone yet?	You busybody.	All you do is talk behind my back.	I'll run you out of town.	Bye-bye!	Don't you ever let him back in here again.	Got that?	I'm no gatekeeper.	Putting on airs like some guest.	I only put you up out of charity.	How much do you owe me?	Why don't you add it up?	I'd be happy to, right away.	Hey, demon lady!	You don't scare me!	Who the hell are you?	Just passing through.	Lodging for the night or moving in?	Depends how it goes.	Either way, you pay in advance.	I'll bring it later.	I'll consider this a deposit, then.	My oh my.	He's out.	- Who's out?	- Sutekichi.	Who asked you?	You were snooping in his room.	I was just making sure it was clean.	If it gets too filthy, they'll close us down.	I'll boot out any of you who don't keep this place clean.	Then you'll run out of funds.	What a shame.	We'd make better rent from beggars.	Just look at you.	You're not some beached turtle.	Get to work on that floor.	Anybody seen my sister here?	She's the one who found the old codger.	And was he here, then?	You mean Sutekichi?	Sure was.	But he didn't say boo to Okayo.	Who asked you?	You get right to work cleaning this place.	Got that?	Demon bitch.	Is she always so touchy?	No wonder, stuck with an old man like hers.	They're not stuck that hard.	Listen, Gramps.	That bitch just came to see her man.	But he's not here, so she took it out on us.	I get the idea.	But you know, Osen... why does she have it in for that clog smith Unokichi?	Because he let it out that Sutekichi ditched her for an upgrade to Okayo.	That's not exactly a lie.	Are you going to clean this place?	Not me.	I'm going drinking.	Planning to get sloshed and weepy?	You're hopeless.	You see, Gramps?	She can't do anything but cry her eyes out.	Sister.	Why don't you try talking to this old man here, instead of crying?	Talking gets it out of your system.	Cut it out, newcomer.	You're getting down on me, too?	My oh my.	Quite a life you got here.	Well, then, I'll do the cleaning myself.	Never seen your face before.	It's well-nigh impossible to know every last human face.	I know every face on my turf, down to the last alley cat.	But not yours.	That must mean your turf is just a wee bit smaller than the rest of the world.	Sure, it's a piddly bit of turf.	But every last thing on it is a pain in my ass.	Where's the broom?	Outside the door.	Hey, listen up.	Last night, that clog smith Unokichi was sprawled on the street, barking gibberish.	Really drew a crowd.	I had to collar him and stick him in the slammer.	He's completely impossible.	What happened to Sutekichi?
